WASHINGTON, D.C. - During a briefing with National Economic Council Director Larry Summers, the White House today released state-by-state data detailing the jobs impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan. Summers discussed President Barack Obama's plan to create jobs, stimulate the economy, and foster long-term economic growth.

"We need to immediately jumpstart job creation and President Obama's American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan will help those who have suffered the most during this economic crisis. Our economy is in the midst of an unprecedented crisis and we need to act now," Summers said today.

Obama's plan will create 3-4 million jobs over the next two years. See below for state-by-state data detailing the employment impact of the recovery plan.

 
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan is a nationwide effort to create jobs, jumpstart growth and transform our economy to compete in the 21st century. The President has set a central goal that this plan will create or save 3 to 4 million jobs over the next two years. Independent analyses by Macroeconomic Advisers and Moody's have confirmed that the recovery plan will meet this jobs goal. Jobs created will be in a range of industries from clean energy to health care, with over 90% in the private sector.

The table below outlines the impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan on employment by state. The estimates are derived from an analysis of the overall employment impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act conducted by Christina Romer, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Jared Bernstein, Chief Economist for the Vice President, and detailed estimates of the working age population, employment, and industrial composition of each state. These estimates are tentative, and subject to change based on the final composition of the legislation.



Population Estimates: U.S. Department of Commerce. Population Division: U.S. Census. Bureau. "Estimates of the Population by Selected Age Groups for the United States." July 1, 2007. Release Date: May 1, 2008. Employment Data: U.S. Department of Labor. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Current Employment Statistics. 2007 Annual - Employment, Hours, and Earnings - State and Metro Area. 2008. Stimulus Employment Projections: Romer, Christina and Jared Bernstein. "The Job Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan." January 9, 2009.