President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint 45 individuals and designate two individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint Robert D. McCallum, Jr., of Georgia, to be a Member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarships Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/22/10.
The President intends to appoint Martin Faga, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 10/03/11.
The President intends to appoint the following to be Members of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, for six-year terms expiring 06/19/14:
Panel of Conciliators:
James C. Boggs, of Virginia;
William Burck, of New York;
Ronald A. Cass, of Virginia;
Emmet Flood, of Maryland.
Panel of Arbitrators:
Fred F. Fielding, of Virginia;
Daniel M. Price, of Maryland.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Valles Caldera Trust:
Raymond Loretto, of New Mexico, (State or Local Government Representative in New Mexico), for a four-year term beginning 01/17/09;
Virgil Trujillo, of New Mexico, (Livestock Management Representative), for a four-year term beginning 01/17/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, for the remainder of two-year terms expiring 05/03/10:
David Allen Josserand, of Florida, and upon appointment designate Chairman;
Kirk M. Bauer, of Maryland, and upon appointment designate Vice Chairman;
Steven Bornstein, of California;
Susan Lieberman Dell, of Texas;
Allyson Felix,of California;
Susan Finn, of Ohio;
Diego Gutierrez, of Illinois;
James W. Holsinger, of Kentucky;
Michelle Kwan, of California;
Robert A. Labonte, of North Carolina;
Edward R. Laskowski, of Minnesota;
Elisha Nelson Manning, of Louisiana;
David W. Marsh, of Alabama;
Leslie E. Miles, of Louisiana;
Omar Minaya, of New Jersey;
Richard F. Phelps, of Indiana;
Ruth Riley, of Florida;
Jason Sehorn, of California.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council:
Elliot Abrams, of Virginia, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Joshua B. Bolten, of the District of Columbia, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Alan I. Casden, of California, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 01/15/11;
Michael Chertoff, of New Jersey, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
William Danhof, of Michigan, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Sanford Gottesman, of Texas, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Cheryl Feldman Halpern, of New Jersey, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09,;
J. David Heller, of Ohio, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Amy Kaslow, of Maryland, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
M. Ronald Krongold, of Florida, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Michael B. Mukasey, of New York, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09;
Daniel Silva, of the District of Columbia, for a five-year term beginning 01/16/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 12/31/11:
Sally K. Mason, of New Jersey;
Robert Y. Moore, of Pennsylvania;
Henry Yang, of California.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, for the remainder of four-year terms expiring 12/03/12:
Nancy Ann Starnes, of Virginia, (Individual with a Disability);
Hans A. Van Winkle, of Texas.
The President intends to designate Lynne A. Osmus, of Virginia, to be Acting Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, to become effective January 16, 2009.
The President intends to designate Susan E. Dudley, of Virginia, to be Acting Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget.