The attached letter was sent today by Lawrence H. Summers to the bipartisan leaders of the United States Senate and House of Representatives detailing President-elect Obama's commitment to implement the Emergency Economic Stabilization in a way that will promote the stability of the financial system and increase lending, preserve home ownership, promote jobs and economic recovery, safeguard taxpayer interests, and have the maximum degree of accountability and transparency possible.
Dear Madam Speaker, Leader Boehner, Leader Reid and Leader McConnell:
Thank you for the extraordinary efforts you have made this week to work with President-Elect Obama in implementing the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. In addition to the commitments I made in my letter of January 12, 2009, the President-Elect asked me to respond to a number of valuable recommendations made by members of the House and Senate as well as the Congressional Oversight Panel. We completely agree that this program must promote the stability of the financial system and increase lending, preserve home ownership, promote jobs and economic recovery, safeguard taxpayer interests, and have the maximum degree of accountability and transparency possible.
As part of that approach, no substantial new investments will be made under this program unless President elect Obama has reviewed the recommendation and agreed that it should proceed. If the President elect concludes that a substantial new commitment of funds is necessary to forestall a serious economic dislocation, he will certify that decision to Congress before any final action is taken.
As the Obama Administration carries out the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, our actions will reflect the Act's original purpose of preventing systemic consequences in the financial and housing markets. The incoming Obama Administration has no intention of using any funds to implement an industrial policy.
The Obama Administration will commit substantial resources of $50-100B to a sweeping effort to address the foreclosure crisis. We will implement smart, aggressive policies to reduce the number of preventable foreclosures by helping to reduce mortgage payments for economically stressed but responsible homeowners, while also reforming our bankruptcy laws and strengthening existing housing initiatives like Hope for
Homeowners. Banks receiving support under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act will be required to implement mortgage foreclosure mitigation programs. In addition to this action, the Federal Reserve has announced a $500B program of support, which is already having a significant beneficial impact in reducing the cost of new conforming mortgages. Together these efforts will constitute a major effort to address this critical problem.
In addition to these commitments, I would like to summarize some of the additional reforms we will be implementing.
The incoming Obama Administration is committed to these undertakings. With these safeguards, it should be possible to improve the effectiveness of our financial stabilization efforts. As I stressed in my letter the other day, we must act with urgency to stabilize and repair the financial system and maintain the flow of credit to families and businesses to restore economic growth. While progress will take time, we are confident that, working closely with the Congress, we can secure America's future.
Sincerely,
Lawrence H. Summers

Director-Designate

National Economic Council