 President and Mrs. Bush have made a historic commitment to the fight against global HIV/AIDS. Since 2001, the Administration has delivered more than $148 billion to fight HIV/AIDS both at home and abroad. Once again, this year, the White House will display the red ribbon on the North Portico to represent the continued battle against HIV/AIDS and to affirm the matchless value of every human life.
 When the President launched this initiative in 2003, approximately 50,000 people in all of sub-Saharan Africa were receiving anti-retroviral treatment.
 President Bush's Faith-based and Community Initiative empowers these organizations so that they can help create an effective, multi-sectoral response to need. Faith-based and community organizations are uniquely positioned to promote HIV/AIDS stigma-reduction and prevention messages and provide counseling and testing, home care, clinical services, and antiretroviral treatment, particularly in some of the hardest-to-reach communities. Last year, 87 percent of PEPFAR partners were indigenous organizations, and nearly a quarter were faith-based.
 In addition to the balanced, evidenced-based ABC (Abstain, Be faithful, and correct and consistent use of Condoms) approach, the United States also supports programs that address mother-to-child transmission, blood safety and safe medical injections, male circumcision, injecting drug users, HIV-discordant couples, alcohol abuse, and other key issues.
 At the Amana District Hospital in Tanzania, met with patients and saw the hope this program has given them, in addition to visiting with doctors, nurses, and caregivers of many faiths and backgrounds working to make a difference in the lives of their fellow citizens.
 The United States is the largest contributor to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, providing more than $3.3 billion since 2001.
 Mrs. Bush has visited 10 of the 15 PEPFAR focus countries. In addition, she emphasizes the link between improved education and disease prevention in nations around the world.
 Approximately one in five people living with HIV – 21 percent – are unaware of their infection.
 Since the 2006 reauthorization of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is better targeting Federal resources to assist areas with the greatest needs.
 The President's 2009 budget requested $93 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) HIV Testing Initiative that focuses on areas of populations with the highest burden of disease.
 The number of HIV/AIDS cases is especially high in the African American, Hispanic, and gay communities, as well as among injecting drug users and prisoners. The Targeted Capacity Expansion Program for Substance Abuse Treatment and HIV/AIDS Services grants support providers across the United States in traditionally underserved communities.