 The President supports a climate change policy that takes advantage of new clean energy technologies; increases our use of alternative fuels; works towards an international agreement that will slow, stop, and eventually reverse the growth of greenhouse gases; and includes binding commitments from all major economies.
 Technology funding for 2008 alone exceeded $4 billion.
 Under the new authority, up to $42.5 billion has been made available for innovative technology loan guarantees, of which $18.5 billion in loan guarantees will support construction of new nuclear plants and reduce interest costs for building plants. A significant portion of the more than $4 billion spent annually on Farm Bill conservation programs will also go to efforts to sequester greenhouse gases.
 The new Federal mandates will reduce greenhouse gas emissions billions of tons below projections.
 This would prevent billions of metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere.
 In 2002, President Bush set a national goal to reduce greenhouse gas intensity 18 percent by 2012. We are well on track to meet or exceed that goal.
 In addition, the President successfully pressured Congress to remove its ban on offshore exploration and took steps to increase domestic oil exploration to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
 In 2005, the United States became the world's leading ethanol producer, and last year, the United States accounted for nearly half of worldwide ethanol production.
 Since the President took office, the projected cost of cellulosic ethanol has dropped by more than 60 percent.
 Today, there are more than 968 biodiesel fueling stations, and hundreds of fleet operators use biodiesel to fuel their trucks. Every year, more Americans are realizing the benefits of biodiesel, which can be produced from soybeans and other vegetable oils, including waste products like recycled cooking grease.
 These vehicles use no gasoline at all and emit clean, pure water.
 Although the President's proposed alternative fuel standard would have gone further and faster than this legislation, EISA represents a major step forward in expanding the production of renewable fuels, reducing our dependence on oil, and confronting global climate change.
 Last year, more than 20 percent of new electrical generating capacity added in the United States came from wind – up from just three percent a few years ago. Wind power now supplies one percent of the United States' electricity.
 Since President Bush launched the Major Economies Meeting (MEM) in May 2007 there has been growing international agreement that, to be effective, a global framework will require commitments from all major economies – both industrialized and emerging – to take actions to reduce emissions.
 With contributions from Australia, Japan, the U.K., and other countries, this fund will accelerate the deployment of cleaner, more efficient technologies in developing nations with large greenhouse gas emissions.
 The United States is leading similar technology partnerships on carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, fusion, renewable energy, energy efficiency, and bio-fuels.
 These include the Asia Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate Change (with Australia, Canada, China, India, Korea, and Japan), the Methane to Markets Partnership (with 20 nations), and work on tropical forest conservation and stopping illegal logging.