The U.S. Department of the Treasury announced today a set of designations targeting Iran's nuclear and missile programs – the first set of measures from the United States implementing UNSCR 1929 and building upon the actions mandated by the Security Council. Today's actions also highlight for the international community Iran's use of its financial sector, shipping industry and Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps to carry out and mask its proliferation activities, and respond to the Council's call for all states to take action to prevent their own financial systems from being abused by Iran.
Pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13382 – which is aimed at freezing the assets of proliferators of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and their supporters thereby isolating them from the U.S. financial and commercial systems – Treasury today designated:
Treasury also today identified 27 vessels as property blocked because of their connection to IRISL and updated the entries for 71 already-blocked IRISL vessels to identify new names given to these vessels as part of IRISL's efforts to evade sanctions. 
.
As a result of today's designations, all transactions involving any of the designees and any U.S. person are prohibited, and any assets the designees may have under U.S. jurisdiction are frozen.
* * * * * * * * * * * *
Treasury also today identified 22 entities in the insurance, petroleum and petrochemicals industries determined to be owned or controlled by the Government of Iran by adding them to Appendix A to the Iranian Transactions Regulations (ITR). The ITR prohibit transactions between U.S. persons and the Government of Iran. These identifications allow U.S. persons and others to identify Iranian Government entities and protect themselves against the risks posed by such entities.
Treasury is today designating 
 for providing financial services to, and acting on behalf of, Bank Sepah. Bank Sepah was designated in January 2007 pursuant to E.O. 13382 for providing financial services to Iran's missile industry, including two entities linked to Iran's ballistic missile program, Shahid Bakeri Industries Group and Shahid Hemmat Industries Group. Bank Sepah was subsequently designated by the United Nations in March 2007 under UNSCR 1747.
Since 2007, Bank Sepah has faced severe difficulties in processing international transactions. Prior to the designation of Bank Sepah, Post Bank's business was nearly entirely conducted within Iran. With Iran's state-owned banks, facing increasing sanctions, Iran began using Post Bank to facilitate international trade. In fact, Post Bank stepped into the shoes of Bank Sepah, after it was designated by the UN, to carry out Bank Sepah's transactions and hide its identity. In 2009, Post Bank facilitated business on behalf of Bank Sepah between Iran's defense industries and overseas beneficiaries.
Post Bank, on behalf of Bank Sepah, has also facilitated millions of dollars worth of business between Hong Kong Electronics and other overseas beneficiaries. Hong Kong Electronics was designated by Treasury in June 2009 under E.O. 13382 for providing support to North Korea's Tanchon Commercial Bank and its primary weapons dealer, Korea Mining Development Corporation (KOMID). Tanchon, named in the Annex to E.O. 13382 and designated under UNSCR 1718, is a commercial bank based in Pyongyang North Korea, and is the financial arm of KOMID, which is also named in the Annex to E.O. 13382.
Treasury today is targeting the 
 and 
, key elements in the operational deployment of Iran's ballistic missile capability, and 
 as well as 
, two subsidiaries of Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters (KAA), the engineering arm of the IRGC that serves to help the IRGC generate income and fund its operations. KAA owned or controlled by the IRGC and is involved in the construction of streets, highways, tunnels, water conveyance projects, agricultural restoration, and pipelines. KAA was designated by Treasury under E.O. 13382 in October 2007 and most recently under UNSCR 1929. Rah Sahel and Sepanir Oil and Gas Engineering Co. were also sanctioned on June 9, 2010 by the United Nations with the adoption of UNSCR 1929.
The IRGC maintains significant political and economic power in Iran. It has ties to companies controlling billions of dollars in business and construction projects and it is a growing presence in Iran's financial and commercial sectors. The IRGC has numerous economic interests related to defense production, construction, and the oil industry.
The IRGC was designated by the State Departmentunder E.O. 13382 in October 2007 for having engaged, or attempted to engage, in proliferation-related activities. The IRGC has been outspoken in its willingness to facilitate the proliferation of ballistic missiles capable of carrying WMD. The IRGC has broad links to Iran's ballistic missile programs and is one of the primary regime organizations tied to developing and testing the Shahab-3 missile.
Treasury is also designating today the following individuals for their roles in the IRGC:
•     
 has been the Commander-in-Chief of the IRGC since September 2007.
•     
 has served as head of the IRGC's Basij Resistance Force since October 2009. Naqdi was sanctioned by the United Nations in March 2008 under UNSCR 1803 for being the former Deputy Chief of the Armed Forces General Staff for Logistics and Industrial Research/Head of the State Anti-Smuggling Headquarters. The U.N. described him as being involved in efforts to evade the sanctions previously imposed under UNSCRs 1737 and 1747.
, an entity that serves as a procurement broker for Kalaye Electric Company, is being designated today for providing services to, and acting on behalf of, Kalaye Electric Company.
Kalaye Electric Company was designated by Treasury in February 2007, also pursuant to E.O. 13382, for being owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI), the main organization in Iran for research and development activities in the field of nuclear technology, including Iran's centrifuge enrichment program and experimental laser enrichment of uranium program. AEOI, which reports directly to Iran's president and manages Iran's overall nuclear program, was identified in the Annex to E.O. 13382 and sanctioned by the United Nations under UNSCR 1737. Kalaye Electric Company is linked to Iran's centrifuge research and development efforts. Both organizations are listed in the Annex to UN Security Council Resolution 1737 because of their involvement in Iran's nuclear program.
Since 2009, Javedan Mehr Toos, located in Tehran, has been sought out by Kalaye Electric Company to obtain a variety of nuclear-related equipment on the international market, including magnets which can be used in centrifuges. In early 2010, Javedan Mehr Toos procured specialized valves and vacuum gauges that could ultimately be used for Iran's uranium enrichment program.
Treasury also designated today the following individuals and entity for their ties to Iran's nuclear and WMD programs:
•     
 has been linked to AEOI since at least 2006, serving as the head of Novin Energy Company (Novin). Novin was designated by Treasury in January 2006 under E.O. 13382 for being owned or controlled by the AEOI, and was sanctioned by the United Nations in March 2007 under UNSCR 1747.
•     
 serves as Iran's Minister of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL), a position he has held since September 2009. Prior to that, he served as Iran's Deputy Defense Minister and held positions with the IRGC-Qods Force. MODAFL has ultimate authority over Iran's Aerospace Industries Organization (AIO) and Iran's Defense Industries Organization (DIO), both of which have been designated under E.O. 13382.
•     
 (aka Cruise Missile Industry Group or CMIG) is owned or controlled by the AIO. The AIO is the overall manager and coordinator of Iran's missile program and oversees all of Iran's missile industries. CMIG was sanctioned by the United Nations in March 2007 under UNSCR 1747 for being involved in the development and production of cruise missiles, as well as being responsible for naval missiles.
Treasury took further action today against the network of Iran's national maritime carrier, IRISL, by designating five front companies aiding IRISL in evading sanctions, identified 27 new vessels as blocked property due to their connection to IRISL, and updating the entries for 71 already-blocked IRISL vessels to identify new names given to them in order to evade sanctions.
Treasury designated IRISL in September 2008 pursuant to Executive Order 13382 for providing logistical services to Iran's Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL). MODAFL has authority over the AIO, the arm of the Iranian military that oversees Iran's ballistic missile program, and has used IRISL to conceal the true destination of shipments of military-related goods destined for MODAFL.
Since being designated, IRISL has increasingly relied upon a series of front companies and has engaged in deceptive behavior – such as falsifying shipping documents and renaming ships – to assist it in overcoming the impact of sanctions and increased scrutiny of its behavior. IRISL has also been involved in Iranian attempts to transfer arms-related material. Iran is prohibited from exporting arms and related material by UNSCR 1747.
IRISL established the front company, 
 
, in 2009, to conduct its containerized shipping operations under the HDS Lines brand name. HDS has retained some IRISL officers as corporate members. In late 2009, HDS Lines assumed IRISL's containerized shipping operations and established shipping routes nearly identical to those formerly operated by IRISL.
Similarly, IRISL created 
, also designated today, which has assumed IRISL's ship management functions in the wake of sanctions against IRISL. Like HDS Lines, it also shares corporate officers with IRISL.
 
., also designated today, was created by IRISL in April 2009 to take control of several ships previously directly owned by IRISL and to handle IRISL's former bulk and general cargo operations. SAPID's directors and/or shareholders are five members of IRISL's Board of Directors: Mohammad Hossein Dajmar, IRISL's Managing Director; Gholamhossein Golpavar, IRISL's Commercial Director; Mohammad Mehdi Rasekh; Masoud Nik Nafs; and Mohammad Sadegh Mofateh. Dajmar serves as SAPID's Chairman, and Nik Nafs serves as its Vice-Chairman. Golparvar serves as SAPID's Managing Director, while Rasekh and Mofateh serve as SAPID directors.
Two Hong Kong-based companies affiliated with IRISL, 
and 
are also being designated today.
Today's designations of IRISL front companies and identification of new and renamed IRISL-affiliated vessels also reinforce UNSCR 1803, which among other things, calls upon all States to inspect, in accordance with their national legal authorities and consistent with international law, cargoes to and from Iran, aircraft and vessels, at their seaports and airports, including their ports, owned or operated by IRISL, "provided there is reasonable grounds to believe that the vessel is transporting goods prohibited" under UNSCRs 1737, 1747, and 1803.
HAFIZ DARYA SHIPPING CO. A.K.A. HDS LINES; HAFIZ DARYA SHIPPING LINES COMPANY
Location: No 60. Ehteshamiyeh Square
7th Neyestan Street
Pasdaran Avenue
Tehran, Iran
IMO Number: 5878431
SOROUSH SARZAMIN ASATIR SHIP MANAGEMENT COMPANY
Location: No. 5 Shabnam Alley
Golzar Street
Fajr Street
Shahid Motahari Avenue Tehran
193651, Iran
Location: P.O. Box 19365-1114 Tehran, Iran
IMO Number: 5466371
SAFIRAN PAYAM DARYA SHIPPING COMPANY
AKA SAPID SHIPPING CO
Official Address: No. 3, 8th Narenjestan Street, Artesh Boulevard,
Farmaniyah Avenue, Tehran, Iran
Alt. Address: No. 33, 8th Narenjestan Street
Artesh Boulevard, Aghdasieh,
Tehran, Iran
Office Address: P.O. Box 1963116 Tehran, Iran
Web Page: 
E-mail: 
SEIBOW LIMITED
Location: Room 803
8/F
Futura Plaza
111 How Kimg St
Kwun Tong, Kowloon
Hong Kong
Incorporation No.: 926320
SEIBOW LOGISTICS LIMITED
Location: Room 803
8/F
Futura Plaza
111 How Kimg St
Kwun Tong, Kowloon
Hong Kong
Incorporation No.: 1218675