WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, President Obama hailed the release of 
 by all Cabinet agencies - the latest milestone in his Administration's unprecedented efforts to erase the long-standing barriers between the American people and the government. These plans are the agencies' strategic roadmap for making transparency, citizen participation, and collaboration part of the way they work.
"For too long, Washington has closed itself off from the oversight of the American public, resulting in information that's difficult to find, taxpayer dollars that disappear without a trace, and lobbyists that wield undue influence," said 
. "That's why my Administration is taking concrete steps to build a government that's more transparent, open and accountable. And now that these plans are published online, we hope the American people will play their part and collaborate with us to provide oversight and improve upon this information. Together, we won't just build a more efficient and effective government, but a stronger democracy as well."
The plans released Wednesday make agency operations and data more transparent, while creating new ways for citizens to have an active voice in their government. In addition, each agency has identified at least one "flagship initiative" - a signature open government innovation in the agency. Examples include:
The 
 tracks the progress of those agencies required to meet the 
. Independent agencies are not mandated to participate, though many, like the 
 and the 
, have taken on the challenge to open their practices to greater transparency and public participation.
In addition to the Open Government Plans, the Administration is releasing new policy guidance involving the 
 and the Paperwork Reduction Act, 
 in the rulemaking process, and setting the process by which the government will collect and publish, for the first time ever, 
. This last piece is in line with the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act, which then-Senator Obama coauthored in 2006 with Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma.
The Administration's open-government efforts began on the President's first full day in office, when he signed a presidential memorandum that established transparency, participation, and collaboration as the hallmarks of a more efficient, accountable government. That same memorandum directed the Federal Chief Technology Officer (CTO) to issue recommendations for creating a more transparent, participatory, and collaborative government.
To that end, the White House Open Government Initiative and the CTO partnered with the American people to solicit expertise from outside of Washington. The three-phase public consultation involved thousands of Americans commenting on and shaping policy approaches that were incorporated in the December 2009 
. The Administration released an 
 to coincide with the Directive, outlining the steps that the federal government has implemented to break down those barriers to public participation and agency transparency.