 
 President Barack Obama
Remarks to the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
March 10, 2009 
Last year, the President challenged states to develop standards and assessments that will help America's children rise to the challenge of graduating from high school prepared for college and the workplace.
Today, the President applauds Governors for their efforts to work together in a state-led consortium - managed by the National Governors Association (NGA) and the Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) - to develop and implement new reading and math standards that build toward college- and career-readiness. With many states well positioned to adopt these standards, the Governors initiative is an essential first step in improving the rigor of teaching and learning in America's classrooms.
In today's global economy, a high-quality education is no longer just a pathway to opportunity and success - it is a prerequisite. Because economic progress and educational achievement go hand in hand, educating every American student to graduate prepared for college and for success in a new workforce is a national imperative.
Meeting this challenge requires that state standards reflect a level of teaching and learning needed for students to graduate ready for success in college and careers. In 1994, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) established a requirement that each state set standards for what America's students should know and be able to do in critical subjects. But the law did not ask states to consider whether those standards were aligned with what is needed for success in college and in the workplace.
According to the National Center for Education Statistics, 31 states set proficiency standards for fourth-grade reading that are lower than even the basic level as measured by the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). Under the No Child Left Behind Act, between 2005 and 2007, various states have lowered their standards in reading and math. Because too many students are not learning the basic skills needed to succeed in college or work while they are in high school, the nation sacrifices more than $3.7 billion a year in lost productivity and remedial education costs.
Over time, this race to the bottom threatens to place American students on a decline in relation to international peers. Results on international assessments reveal that, in math, American students
lag almost a full year behind students from the top performing countries. In response to their international comparison results, other countries have raised their standards while we have lowered ours.
President Obama has encouraged the state-led effort to end the practice of low-balling state reading and math standards, and will promote initiatives that support states in the adoption and implementation of college and career-ready standards. To spur reform and excellence in our schools, the President's 
 competition rewards states that choose to adopt state-developed common standards that build toward college- and career-readiness. In the coming months, the Obama Administration will also commit $350 million to a new competition supporting state-led partnerships to develop new, state-of-the art assessments aligned to college and career-ready standards.
The President's FY 2011 budget supports the Obama Administration's plan for the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), including a comprehensive and new vision to help states successfully transition to and implement college- and career-ready standards by improving teacher preparation and development, upgrading classroom instruction, and supporting high-quality assessments.
In better aligning the law to support college- and career-ready standards, the Obama Administration will integrate new policies into a re-designed Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which will: