WASHINGTON, DC - Today, President Obama signed an executive order, 
, renewing the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the White House East Room. This event demonstrates the President's strong appreciation for the historic role these institutions have played in educating our citizens and the Administration's commitment to assisting HBCUs with accomplishing their mission.
Historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) have made historic and ongoing contributions to the general welfare and prosperity of our country. Established by visionary leaders, America's HBCUs have, for over 150 years, produced many of the Nation's leaders in business, government, academia, and the military and have provided generations of American men and women with hope and educational opportunity.
The Nation's 105 HBCUs are located in 20 states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and serve more than 300,000 undergraduate and graduate students. These institutions continue to be important engines of economic growth and community service, and they are proven ladders of intergenerational advancement for men and women of all ethnic, racial, and economic backgrounds, especially African-Americans.
Among its provisions 
:
Apart from the Executive Order, President Obama has demonstrated his commitment to strengthening educational opportunities at HBCUs through his FY 11 Budget which includes:
Students attending HBCUs will also benefit from provisions included in the President's higher education package, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA), currently pending before Congress and reflected in the President's FY 11 Budget. SAFRA deepens the President's commitment to Pell, includes an expansion of low-interest Perkins Loans and further simplifies federal financial aid forms. SAFRA would also provide increased support for Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) including HBCUs and helps MSIs through programs such as the American Graduation Initiative that lends new support for community colleges, and the Access and Completion Fund, which would make grants to states, institutions of higher education, and other organizations to support innovative strategies to increase the number of students entering and completing college.
President Obama is working to provide students a complete and competitive education from cradle to career by ensuring that students, families and communities have the resources and opportunities needed to improve educational outcomes. Today, we set a course to work with HBCUs to achieve this goal.