A summary of the Executive Order is given below; it enumerates various changes, having to do:
"1. With a system of purchasing, providing for an Office of Procurement which may purchase all articles common to the various governmental agencies, or permit other agencies to purchase specialized and technical articles."
"2. With the consolidation of all functions of administering public buildings and reservations, national parks, national monuments, and national cemeteries, in the Department of the Interior, and the abolition of the following Commissions:
Arlington Memorial Bridge Commission

Public Buildings Commission

Public Buildings and Public Parks of the National Capital Commission

National Memorial Commission

Rock Creek and Potomac Parkway Commission."
"3. With the consolidation of disbursing under the Treasury Department, greatly reducing the 2,200 present disbursing offices."
"4. With confining to the Department of Justice the responsibility of prosecuting and defending court actions to which the United States is a party. Some of this is now done by the various Departments."
"5. With consolidating in the Department of Justice the Insular Courts."
"6. With solicitors for several of the Departments."
"7. With consolidating in the Treasury Department under a Division of Internal Revenue the present Bureau of Internal Revenue and Bureau of Industrial Alcohol. These are revenue collecting agencies."
"8. With abolishing the completion of statistics for cities with a population of less than 100,000."
"9. With the abolition of the United States Shipping Board and the transfer to the Department of Commerce of its functions and those of the United States Shipping Board Merchant Fleet Corporation."
"10. With the abolition of the National Screw Thread Commission."
"11. With consolidation in the Department of Labor of the Bureaus of Immigration and Naturalization."
"12. With transfer to the Department of the Interior of the Federal Board for Vocational Education."
"13. With the abolition of the Coordinating Service."
"14. With the consolidation in a Division of Investigation in the Department of Justice of the investigatory functions of the Bureau of Prohibition, and with the transfer to the Division of Internal Revenue of the licensing functions of the Bureau of Prohibition."
"15. With the reduction by 25 percent of the costs of:
Cooperative vocational education and rehabilitation,

Cooperative agricultural extension work,

Agricultural experiment stations, and

Endowment and maintenance of colleges for the benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts."
"It is estimated that there will be effected under these orders a saving of at least $25,000,000 annually."