[
]
 Republicans are already out saying what you're talking about so far, for Wednesday night, is not going to create any new jobs.
 You know, I would suggest that they save the rebuttal for after the speech -- [
] -- since they haven't really -- they haven't really heard what we're proposing.
 But what is it going to be?
 We're going to talk about how we can, first of all, focus on job creation and growth. And I met with the Republicans, so I have their ideas. And some of the things we propose are things that actually should get some strong bipartisan support.
 But a year ago, you said the first item on the agenda a year ago --
 Right.
 -- jobs.
 Absolutely.
[
]
 Over the next two years, this plan will save or create 3.5 million jobs.
[
]
 Painted a picture of jobs from coast to --
 Well, now, Diane, I think -- I think that's not fair. Here's what --
 A hope -- a hope for jobs, at least --
 Here's --
 -- in infrastructure --
 Here's what I said was that our number-one priority was stopping the economic contraction. Now, the economy is growing again. And we did create or save several million jobs. But we still lost 7 million jobs. And so, you know, I understand why the American people -- their attitude is how do we make sure that we keep on getting it better.
 There are reports now of other potential suicide bombers coming out of Yemen. Osama bin Laden, as we know, has issued a tape championing the Christmas Day attempted bomber.
Do you have any indication that they're already here?
 Since 9/11, we have put in a series of measures that make us much safer now than we were before 9/11. Al Qaeda itself is greatly weakened from where it was back in 2000.
Bin Laden sending out a tape trying to take credit for a Nigerian student who engaged in a failed bombing attempt is an indication of how weakened he is because this is not something necessarily directed by him.
 Ever in the middle of all this coming at you, do you think maybe one term is enough?
 [
] You know, I would say that when I -- the one thing I'm clear about is that I'd rather be a really good one-term president than an mediocre two-term president. And I -- and I believe that.
You know, there's a tendency in Washington to think that our job description of elected officials is to get reelected. That's not our job description. I will not slow down in terms of going after the big problems that this country faces. I am not backing off the need for us to tackle these big problems in a serious way.