WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key administration post:

•      
, Chief Financial Officer, Department of Labor

President Obama also announced his intent to appoint 
 to serve as Commissioner of the District of Columbia Judicial Nominations Commission.

 said, "These accomplished and dedicated individuals will bring extensive experience to their roles, and I am grateful they have chosen to serve in my administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."





James L. Taylor has nearly thirty years of federal financial management experience. He is currently the Deputy Inspector General for the Department of Homeland Security, where he assists the Inspector General in managing over 600 auditors, inspectors, and investigators. From 1999-2005, Mr. Taylor was the Deputy Chief Financial Officer for the Department of Commerce, where he successfully implemented the department's first integrated financial management system. Prior to his position at Commerce, Mr. Taylor served as the Deputy Chief Financial Officer for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where he helped transform FEMA's financial operations to more effectively support the agency's disaster response activities. Mr. Taylor has received the Donald E. Scantlebury Award for Excellence in Federal Financial Management, and the Presidential Rank Award of Distinguished Executive. He received his B.A. from Old Dominion University and an MPA from the University of Delaware, where he was a Public Service Fellow.





Woody Peterson is a partner at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in the Firm's Antitrust & Dispute Resolution Group. His practice focuses on appellate litigation. Mr. Peterson has authored or co-authored numerous briefs in the federal courts of appeals and state appellate courts, as well as petitions for 
, briefs in opposition, and 
 briefs in the Supreme Court of the United States. The briefs have spanned subject areas as diverse as energy, antitrust, ERISA, securities, defamation, employment, insurance coverage, and intellectual property. Mr. Peterson is a member of the bars of the District of Columbia and Massachusetts. He served as co-editor of Chapter 11 ("Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity") of the Fourth Edition of the 
 treatise, published in 2007. Mr. Peterson received his A.B., 
, from Harvard College in 1970 and his J.D., 
, from the Harvard Law School in 1976.