                                                                                            President Barack Obama
                                                                                                                             March 10, 2009
Every school day, about 7,000 students decide to drop out of school - a total of 1.2 million students each year - and only about 70% of entering high school freshman graduate every year. Without a high school diploma, young people are less likely to succeed in the workforce. Each year, our nation loses $319 billion in potential earnings associated with the dropout crisis.
Students at risk of dropping out of school can be identified as early as sixth grade by reviewing records of attendance, behavior, and course failure. Research has demonstrated that by making learning environments safe and relevant, better engaging parents and their communities in schools, and helping students get back on-track academically, the dropout rate can be lowered.
Approximately 2,000 of America's high schools produce half of the nation's school dropouts. President Obama is committed to a strategy for reform in America's middle and high schools - including bold interventions to drive improvement in America's lowest performing schools - to help prepare all students to graduate college and career ready.
Today, the President will discuss efforts to help curb the dropout crisis and better prepare students for college and careers:
It takes more time, stronger interventions, and a larger investment of funds to help turn around persistently low-performing schools. The Obama Administration has committed $3.5 billion to fund transformational changes in America's persistently low-performing schools, including assisting states in identifying and prioritizing high schools with graduation rates below 60%. Under the leadership of Secretary Arne Duncan, the U.S. Department of Education's 
 will support vigorous interventions for 5,000 of the nation's lowest-performing schools over the next five years, designed to drive change, improve student achievement, and transform school culture. The President's FY 2011 budget includes an additional $900 million to support 
. To access school improvement funds, states and school districts will choose among four reform models to change their lowest-performing schools:
One study found that when asked why they left school, about half of dropouts responded that they did not find school interesting, and over two-thirds reported that school did not motivate or inspire them. The Obama Administration is committed to investing in 
 
 to better engage youth in their learning and to help them catch-up academically. The Obama Administration will support effective dropout prevention strategies - through $50 million committed to the 
 and through reforms supported under the 
, which has passed the U.S. House of Representatives. These efforts include:
Participation in a challenging high school curriculum has a greater impact on whether a student will earn a four-year college degree than his or her high school test scores, class rank, or grades. The President's FY 2011 budget supports a new $100 million 
 to increase access to college-level, dual credit, and other accelerated courses in high-need high schools, and to support college-going strategies and models that will help students succeed. For example, 
 allow students to earn a high school degree and an Associate's degree (or 2 years of college credit), simultaneously, and d
 provide college-level courses and opportunities for students to earn post-secondary credit while still in high school. The Obama Administration will also launch new efforts to better support completion and submission of the 
 - or 
 - to increase the likelihood that students will enroll in college.