WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a speech at Kenmore Middle School, President Obama urged Congress to fix No Child Left Behind (NCLB) before the start of the next school year. The President articulated key priorities for reforming NCLB that will enable us to win the future and prepare our students to out-educate and out-compete the world in the 21st century economy:

•      A fair accountability system that shares responsibility for improvement and rewards excellence, and that is based on high standards and is informed by sophisticated assessments that measure individual student growth;

•      A flexible system that empowers principals and teachers, and supports reform and innovation at the state and local level;

•      And a system focused on the schools and the students most at risk -- that targets resources to persistently low-performing schools and ensures the most effective teachers serve students most in need.

"We need to make sure we're graduating students who are ready for college and a career.," 
 "In the 21st Century, it's not enough to leave no child behind. We need to help every child get ahead. We need to get every child on a path to academic excellence."

As a recent an analysis from the Department of Education shows, NCLB's broken accountability system means that the overwhelming majority of schools will not meet NCLB's goals and the students most at risk won't get the help they need. Instead of NCLB's one-size-fits-all mandates, we need to fix this law now so that we can close achievement gaps and win the future.

Over the past several weeks, President Obama has highlighted schools across the country that demonstrate the impact of reforms at the state and local levels, the importance of shared responsibility in education, and most importantly the goal of achieving results. At Miami Central High School the President highlighted the ability of a community to come together and make the tough reforms and take on the challenging work to turnaround a low-performing school. At TechBoston Academy, the President discussed the shared responsibility and positive results of public and private sectors in the education of our nation's children.

In today's speech, the President praised current efforts by Congressional leaders to replace NCLB and urged Congress to make these vital reforms before the next school year begins. With the United States lagging far behind international competitors in science, reading and math, the need for swift reform has never been greater.

See below for a fact sheet on fixing No Child Left Behind.




No Child Left Behind (NCLB) is the current version of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), a landmark federal law established in 1965. ESEA was originally established to ensure educational equity for all students. The law is routinely "reauthorized" by Congress and has not been reauthorized since 2002 – the longest-ever period between rewrites of this law.

NCLB was proposed by the Bush Administration and enacted by the 107th Congress, in 2001, by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote and signed into law in 2002. NCLB requires each state to set academic standards; test all students periodically in science as well as in reading and math in grades 3-8 and once in high school ; and to set annual accountability targets for every school to meet. NCLB sets a national goal that by 2014 all students would be "proficient" in reading and math, and requires states and school districts to intervene in schools that miss their annual targets for multiple years. However, 37% of America's schools today are not meeting their annual targets mandated by NCLB. The U.S. Department of Education estimates that number could more than double, to over 80% of schools in 2011, highlighting the need to fix the law.

NCLB helped highlight achievement gaps among low-income students, minorities, students with disabilities, and English language learners, and it requires all schools to show whether they are closing these achievement gaps. However, the law needs urgent attention to be fixed with a new framework that is fair, flexible and focused on results.



America's future economic competitiveness is being decided every day, in classrooms across the nation. In order to help prepare each of our children to win the future and succeed in the global marketplace, the President has called upon Congress to act this year to replace NCLB with a law that re-shapes the federal role in education to better promote responsibility, reform and results:

•      
President Obama's plan will replace No Child Left Behind's accountability system with a new federal framework that is fair, flexible, and focused on helping every student graduate ready for college and career. Instead of labeling more and more schools as "failing" under NCLB, the President wants a smarter system that better focuses meaningful reform on each state's lowest-performing schools and those with the greatest achievement gaps, while rewarding those that make significant strides in helping their students succeed. The President's ESEA plan invests in the work underway in 44 states to replace narrow, fill-in-the-bubble tests with a new generation of college- and career-ready tests, the results of which will drive a new accountability system more accurately focused on student learning and growth.






 Rely on unsophisticated bubble tests to grade students and schools.



 Teachers and principals don't get credit for improving student scores.



 States lowered standards to meet yearly goals under No Child Left Behind. Often, students graduating from high school need remedial courses in college.



 A narrow curriculum focused only reading and math.



 Schools that are doing well often get mislabeled as "failing" under No Child Left Behind's broken accountability system.



 Too often the schools with the greatest challenges don't have the most effective teachers.



 The federal government prescribes "one size fits all" solutions.



 No Child Left Behind does not promote or reward innovation in schools.



 Our nation's lowest-performing schools lack the resources and reforms needed to improve.



 Parents are often under-engaged in their child's education, and schools are often unwelcoming of parents.



 States often lack the resources to support and address the unique challenges of rural schools.
