Judith A. Ansley, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for the remainder of the term expiring September 19, 2011, vice Ron Silver. 
Craig Becker, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2014, vice Dennis P. Walsh. 
Alan D. Bersin, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ralph Basham. 
Donald M. Berwick, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Mark B. McClellan. 
William J. Boarman, of Maryland, to be Public Printer, vice Robert Charles Tapella, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. 
Rafael Borras, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Elaine C. Duke, resigned. 
Matthew J. Bryza, of Illinois, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. 
David Lee Carden, of New York, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. 
Richard Christman, of Kentucky, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for the remainder of the term expiring October 6, 2012, vice Tom Osborne, resigned. 
Mario Cordero, of California, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2014, vice Harold J. Creel, Jr., resigned. 
Philip E. Coyle, III, of California, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Rosina M. Bierbaum. 
Scott C. Doney, of Massachusetts, to be Chief Scientist of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, vice Kathryn D. Sullivan. 
Rebecca F. Dye, of North Carolina, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2015. (Reappointment) 
Norman L. Eisen, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. 
Robert Stephen Ford, of Vermont, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Syrian Arab Republic, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. 
Katherine M. Gehl, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2013, vice Collister Johnson, Jr., term expired. 
Agnes Gund, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2016. (New Position) 
Jane D. Hartley, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Donna N. Williams, resigned. 
Jonathan Andrew Hatfield, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Gerald Walpin. 
Roberto R. Herencia, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2012, vice Patrick J. Durkin, term expired. 
Eric L. Hirschhorn, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Export Administration, vice Mario Mancuso, resigned. 
Matthew Maxwell Taylor Kennedy, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2012, vice Samuel E. Ebbesen, term expired. 
Marguerite W. Kondracke, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring June 10, 2014, vice Richard Allan Hill, term expired. 
George Albert Krol, of New Jersey, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan. 
John A. Lancaster, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term of four years. (Reappointment) 
Matthew Francis McCabe, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2013, vice Leona White Hat, term expired. 
Michael F. Mundaca, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Eric Solomon, resigned. 
John D. Podesta, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2014, vice Alan D. Solomont, resigned. 
Michael W. Punke, of Montana, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Peter F. Allgeier, resigned. 
Lisa M. Quiroz, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring February 8, 2014, vice Vince J. Juaristi, term expired. 
Francis Joseph Ricciardone, Jr., of Massachusetts, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey, to which position he was appointed during the recess of the Senate from December 22, 2010, to January 5, 2011. 
Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, of Wisconsin, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Thomas M. Sullivan. 
Timothy Charles Scheve, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2015, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired. 
Phyllis Nichamoff Segal, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2013, vice Jacob Joseph Lew, term expired. 
Islam A. Siddiqui, of Virginia, to be Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Richard T. Crowder. 
Richard Sorian, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Christina H. Pearson, resigned. 
Paul M. Tiao, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Labor, vice Gordon S. Heddell, resigned. 
Juan F. Vasquez, of Texas, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment) 