Today, the White House released a report entitled "The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010: Win for Women, Mothers and Working Families" to continue to make the economic case for tax agreement.
The full report is below. A post by Valerie Jarrett, Senior Advisor to the President and Chair of the White House Council on Women and Girls, on the report can be found 
.
The agreement announced by the President not only secures vital tax relief and investments in our workers that will create jobs and accelerate economic growth, it contains specific policies that provide targeted support for working families, particularly women and mothers. Building off the gains made in the Recovery Act, the agreement will extend key provisions including the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and the Child Tax Credit (CTC) that disproportionately benefit women and working families. In summary:
•  
 An estimated 12 million women will benefit from the expansion in the EITC and CTC that are extended in this agreement.
•  
 Families headed by single mothers are among the most economically at risk in our fragile recovery. This extension of the EITC and CTC would direct substantial resources to these families, with an estimated 4 million of the families gaining being headed by single mothers.
Economic studies consistently find that lower-income households are the most likely to spend additional money, creating jobs and helping overall growth. That's why the Congressional Budget Office has concluded that "policies aimed at lower-income households tend to have greater stimulative effects."
Beginning in the Recovery Act, the President has demonstrated his commitment to extend benefits and tax cuts to struggling families as the right thing to do for family security and our economy. 
.
Three of these policies are continued in the current agreement, including Unemployment Insurance, the EITC and the Child Tax Credit.
Not only do these provisions help strengthen the economy by promoting work and putting money into the pockets of working families who eventually put it back into the economy through consumption, they are also effective at improving the health of families. 
.
The Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) supplements the wages of low income workers, and especially working mothers, lifting more children out of poverty than any other single program or category of programs.
Under the Recovery Act, the EITC was expanded to reduce the marriage penalty and to create a "third tier" of the EITC for families with three or more children. This means larger families now receive up to $1,040 more than they would have under the old system.
The Child Tax Credit helps low-and moderate-income families with children. The credit allows families to reduce their federal income tax by a certain amount for each qualifying child under the age of 17 in a household. In 2001, the Child Tax Credit was expanded to $1,000 per child, but was unavailable to millions of low income families because the minimum amount of earned income used to calculate the credit was set at about $12,500 in today's dollars.
In the Recovery Act, the Administration and Congress secured an important expansion in the Child Tax Credit for lower income families by lowering the minimum amount from about $12,500 to $3,000.
The agreement secures an extension of unemployment insurance for an additional 13 months. Without this extension, 2 million people looking for work would have lost their benefits this month alone, and through the end of next year 7 million people would have lost their benefits.
###
 Sherman, Arloc "Stimulus Keeping 6 Million Americans Out of Poverty in 2009, Estimates Show." 
, September 2009.
These seven policies are: Making Work Pay Tax Credit, improved Child Tax Credit, improved EITC, additional $25 per week in unemployment benefits, additional weeks of unemployment assistance (Emergency Unemployment Compensation) for long-term jobless workers, increased benefit level in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, $250 one-time Economic Recovery Payments for recipients of Social Security, veterans disability compensation, Railroad Retirement, and SSI for the elderly and people with disabilities.
The CBPP report highlights the number of people kept above the poverty line (using a comprehensive poverty
measure recommended by the National Academy of Sciences and favored by many analysts) and additional, unpublished estimates from their model show that, of the 6.2 million, 3.3 million are female.
 William N. Evans and Craig L. Garthwaite, "Giving Mom a Break: The Impact of Higher EITV Payments on Maternal Health," 
 August 2010