Daniel M. Ashe, of Maryland, to be Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, vice Samuel D. Hamilton. 
Thomas M. Beck, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, term expired. 
Ann D. Begeman, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2015, vice Charles D. Nottingham, term expired. 
Albert J. Beveridge III, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice James Davison Hunter, term expired. 
Sue Kathrine Brown, of Texas, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Montenegro. 
Constance M. Carroll, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Tamar Jacoby, term expired. 
James Michael Cole, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Attorney General, vice David W. Ogden, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate. 
Elisebeth Collins Cook, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2014. (New Position). 
Nils Maarten Parin Daulaire, of Virginia, to be Representative of the United States on the Executive Board of the World Health Organization, vice Joxel Garcia. 
Cathy N. Davidson, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Marvin Bailey Scott, term expired. 
James Xavier Dempsey, of California, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2016. (New Position). 
Peter A. Diamond, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of fourteen years from February 1, 2000, vice Frederic S. Mishkin. 
Kelvin K. Droegemeier, of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2016. (Reappointment). 
Paula Barker Duffy, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Harvey Klehr, term expired. 
Aaron Paul Dworkin, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2014, vice Karen Lias Wolff, term expired. 
Timothy J. Feighery, of New York, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for a term expiring September 30, 2012, vice Mauricio J. Tamargo, term expired. 
Maurice B. Foley, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment). 
Frances M.D. Gulland, of California, to be a Member of the Marine Mammal Commission for a term expiring May 13, 2012, vice Vera Alexander, term expired. 
Janice Lehrer-Stein, of California, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice Victoria Ray Carlson, term expired. 
Carolyn N. Lerner, of Maryland, to be Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel, for the term of five years, vice Scott J. Bloch, resigned. 
Terry Lewis, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2011, vice C. William Swank, term expired. 
Terry Lewis, of Michigan, to be Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2014. (Reappointment)
Peter Bruce Lyons, of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy), vice Warren F. Miller, Jr., resigned. 
Cora B. Marrett, of Wisconsin, to be Deputy Director of the National Science Foundation, vice Kathie L. Olsen. 
Denise Ellen O'Donnell, of New York, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, vice Domingo S. Herraiz, resigned. 
Stephanie O'Sullivan, of Virginia, to be Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence, vice David C. Gompert, resigned. 
Eric G. Postel, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Jacqueline Ellen Schafer, resigned. 
Leon Rodriguez, of Maryland, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Paul DeCamp. 
Jo Ann Rooney, of Massachusetts, to be Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Michael L. Dominguez. 
David Bruce Shear, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 
Daniel L. Shields III, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Brunei Darussalam. 
Pamela L. Spratlen, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic. 
Kathryn D. Sullivan, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Phillip A. Singerman. 
Clyde E. Terry, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 2013, vice John R. Vaughn, resigned. 
Kurt Walter Tong, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as United States Senior Official for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Forum. 
James A. Torrey, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2013, vice Dianne I. Moss, term expired. 
Joseph M. Torsella, of Pennsylvania, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador. 
Joseph M. Torsella, of Pennsylvania, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform. 
Andrew L. Traver, of Illinois, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. (New Position). 
Michael Vickers, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, vice James R. Clapper, Jr. 
Martha Wagner Weinberg, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2016, vice Herman Belz, term expired. 