President Obama and Indonesian President Yudhoyono have committed to making combating climate change, including enhanced cooperation on clean energy, a key element of the new U.S.-Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership. The Presidents emphasized efforts to implement two major international climate and energy agreements conceived last year - the Copenhagen Accord's call to reduce global emissions by taking concrete and transparent mitigation actions, and the G-20 Leaders' commitment to phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies while promoting renewable energy and improving energy efficiency.
The United States applauds the Government of Indonesia's leadership on climate change. Indonesia's progress towards meeting its unilateral goal of reducing emissions 26% below business as usual and up to 41% with assistance -- in a way that is consistent and complementary with a sustainable economic growth strategy -- can be a model and inspiration for sustainable, low-carbon growth across the developing world.
The United States is also encouraged by the new Norway-Indonesia partnership to reduce emissions from forests and peat lands, currently Indonesia's highest source of emissions. We note the recent progress on formulating Indonesia's "REDD+" (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation) Strategy and establishing coordinating mechanisms through the REDD+ Task Force. We welcome this as a major step forward and intend to fully support these efforts through a practical approach and on the basis of an agreed agenda between our Governments.
In this regard, Presidents Obama and Yudhoyono announced developments in several new and ongoing U.S.-Indonesia initiatives:
The Millennium Challenge Corporation
The MCC is currently embarking on extensive joint planning sessions with the Government of Indonesia to agree on a large, multi-year compact to promote economic growth and poverty reduction, for submission to its Board in 2011. The negotiations are focused on three thematic areas: green prosperity, access to economic opportunities, and governance. 
 investments are expected to enhance livelihoods consistent with a low-carbon, environmentally and socially sustainable growth strategy. Programs under the compact will look to leverage and complement climate change and development programs under the U.S. - Indonesia Comprehensive Partnership as well as support the Norway-Indonesia partnership.
Ongoing Climate Change Engagement
The first Working Group on Climate Change and Environment, under the Comprehensive Partnership, met in September. This followed an announcement by the two Presidents in June of a broad suite of cooperation on both environment and climate under the SOLUSI ("solution" in Indonesian) framework, which involves $136 million in total funding, including programs with a strong climate change dimension:
Strengthening Technical Capacity for Tackling Climate Change
This past June, the United States announced it would support Indonesia in establishing a Climate Change Center that will link science to policy on strategic priorities in the climate change area. While the design of the Center is still under discussion, the United States is moving forward, in cooperation with the Government of Indonesia, to provide technical assistance.
Emissions reductions, in particular REDD+, is a priority for Indonesia. A key element of this is the establishment of a world class measurement, reporting and verification, or "MRV", capability, both for operational purposes and for international engagement with the highest degree of integrity. The United States stands ready to provide, as mutually agreed, support needed by the Government of Indonesia, through the knowledge, capacity and assets it has developed in this field.
Enhancing Clean Energy Collaboration
Renewable energy and energy efficiency are key parts of Indonesia's plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to energy security goals. The United States has taken the following actions to support the clean energy deployment in Indonesia and promote trade and investment that benefits Indonesian users as well as United States exporters: