Today at the Seoul Summit, G-20 Leaders re-affirmed their commitment to the groundbreaking decision taken at the Pittsburgh G-20 Summit in 2009 to phase out fossil fuel subsidies in the medium term. They recognized the substantial progress that has already been made in the last 14 months and agreed to monitor their progress over the next year. Phasing out fossil fuel subsidies is important because it encourages energy conservation, improves our energy security, helps us meet budget goals and provides a critical down payment on our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A gradual multilateral removal (by 2020) of existing fossil fuel subsidies could result in global greenhouse gas emissions dropping by 10% by 2050 relative to what is otherwise expected.
Leaders also agreed to take concrete steps to make the world's physical oil markets more transparent and to continue to improve the regulation of financial oil derivative markets. These actions are expected to reduce the volatility of oil prices, thereby benefiting both energy producers and consumers.
At Pittsburgh last year, the G-20 Leaders committed to rationalize and phase out inefficient fossil fuel subsidies over the medium term. The G-20 countries subsequently have:
 President Obama is committed to working with Congress to phase out over $3 billion a year in preferential tax incentives for the coal, oil, and gas industries, consistent with the FY2010 and FY2011 budget proposals.
G-20 Leaders also took steps to reduce oil price volatility in the future. They asked international organizations to improve reporting on global oil production, consumption, and inventories as a means of increasing market transparency. They also called on regulators to implement International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) recommendations on improving commodity financial market data, market transparency, and regulatory cooperation and take steps needed to combat market manipulation by ensuring that they have the necessary legal framework to detect and take appropriate enforcement action. These efforts will help make sure energy markets work well and enhance market integrity.