Samuel Epstein Angel, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Mississippi River Commission for a term of nine years. (Reappointment)
Mari Carmen Aponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Thomas M. Beck, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Mediation Board for a term expiring July 1, 2013, vice Elizabeth Dougherty, term expired.
Alan D. Bersin, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, Department of Homeland Security, vice W. Ralph Basham.
Donald M. Berwick, of Massachusetts, to be Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, vice Mark B. McClellan.
Peter A. Diamond, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of fourteen years from February 1, 2000, vice Frederic S. Mishkin.
Jeffrey Alan Goldstein, of New York, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Robert K. Steel, resigned.
Elisabeth Ann Hagen, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety, vice Richard A. Raymond, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Cameron Munter, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, of Wisconsin, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Thomas M. Sullivan, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Richard Sorian, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Christina H. Pearson, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Marsha Ternus, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2012, vice Robert A. Miller, term expired.
Pamela Ann White, of Maine, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia.