WASHINGTON – Today, President Obama will sign the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act (IPERA) which will help achieve the President's new goal of reducing wasteful, improper payments by $50 billion between now and 2012. 

said, "The bipartisan bill I'm signing today will help ensure that our government serves as a responsible steward for the tax dollars of the American people, and builds on the efforts we're taking to cut wasteful spending.  Those include my proposal for a three-year freeze on all non-security discretionary spending in my budget and working to put an end to wasteful government contracting and unnecessary no-bid contracts.  The bill I'm signing today passed unanimously in both the House and the Senate – a powerful reminder of what we can accomplish when we put partisanship aside and do what's best for the people we serve."

 Each year, the federal government wastes billions of American taxpayers' dollars on improper payments to individuals, organizations, and contractors. These are payments made in the wrong amount, to the wrong person, or for the wrong reason. Since taking office, the President has worked to eliminate wasteful spending in part by reducing improper payments.  In November 2009, the President issued an executive order laying out a strategy to reduce improper payments through boosting transparency, holding agencies accountable, and creating strong incentives for compliance. He followed that up in March 2010 by directing all federal departments to intensify and expand payment recapture audits, and in June by ordering the establishment of a federal Do Not Pay List so that there is one source for agencies to check on the eligibility status of an individual or contractor.







Today, the President will sign into law the Improper Payment Elimination and Recovery Act (IPERA), an important step toward realizing the President's new goal of reducing wasteful, improper payments by $50 billion between now and 2012.

 In 2009, improper payments totaled nearly $110 billion, the highest amount to date. These include payments made in error or because of fraudulent claims by contractors and organizations as well as benefits sent to individuals who are dead or in jail. In fact, over the past three years, federal auditors have reported that the government paid out benefits totaling more than $180 million to approximately 20,000 Americans who were dead; and more than $230 million in benefits to approximately 14,000 fugitive felons or those in jail and who are not eligible for benefits.

 Since taking office, the Administration has moved aggressively to reduce improper payments:

 The IPERA will complement and help implement the Administration's campaign against improper payments. Specifically, the bill will improve agency efforts to reduce and recover improper payments in several ways, including:

Currently, if an agency does not reduce improper payments or implement the existing law, there are no repercussions.  Under IPERA, there is a list of actions that an agency must take to be in compliance with the law, and the agency Inspector General is responsible for determining whether the agency is in compliance with the law. If the agency is found not to be in compliance with the law, then IPERA contains a series of actions that the agency must take to improve its error reduction efforts.
