This week, the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate reported out of conference committee an historic financial reform bill, one consistent with the key priorities that President Obama laid out a year ago. The bill puts the U.S. at the forefront of global financial reform, and advances the agenda to strengthen the international financial system laid out at London and Pittsburgh. These reforms will reduce moral hazard, limit the buildup of systemic risk, bring new transparency to the derivative market and create a more resilient financial system better able to support strong economic growth. The U.S. is working closely with the European Union and others to ensure that the G-20's ambitious agenda for regulatory reform is implemented.
1. 
 
 In the United States, if a big financial firm is failing, it will have only one fate: liquidation. There will be no taxpayer funded bailout. Instead, regulators will have the ability to shut down and break apart failing financial firms in a safe, orderly way – without putting the rest of the financial system at risk, and without asking the taxpayers to pay a dime. We are working at the international level to put in place a regime in which banks hold more and higher quality capital and face a mandatory leverage ratio so banks can sustain a significant level of unanticipated losses, comparable to those experienced in the crisis.
2. 
 
 By bringing the derivatives markets out of the shadows, U.S. financial reform will benefit those businesses that use derivatives to manage their commercial risks. That's good for every farmer and every manufacturer that uses derivatives the way they were meant to be used. Derivatives reform will also require capital and margin requirements for every dealer and major market participant, helping prevent a future AIG.
3. 
 
 Loopholes that allowed firms like Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and AIG to operate without tough standards or oversight were major contributors to the financial crisis. U.S. financial reform will close these loopholes and create accountable regulation for all firms that pose the most risk to the financial system. It will end the ability of financial firms to avoid tough standards by manipulating their legal structure.
4. 
 
 U.S. financial reform will require advisers to hedge funds to register with the SEC for the first time, bringing transparency and oversight to these unregulated financial firms.
5. 
 
 In the U.S, financial reform will prevent any financial firm from growing by acquisition to more than 10 percent of the liabilities in the financial system. This will reduce the adverse effects of the failure of any single firm and prevent the further concentration of our financial system. The reform will require higher capital and liquidity requirements and more intensive supervision for firms that pose the most risk.
6. 
 
 U.S. financial reform will give shareholders a vote on the compensation of senior executives at the companies they own and require that the compensation committees of corporate boards uphold high standards for independence. The Federal Reserve, FDIC, OCC, and OTS recently released guidance on compensation practices for banks and the SEC issued enhanced rules for disclosure on compensation packages for listed firms.
7. 
 
  In addition to higher capital and tougher standards for the largest, most interconnected firms, U.S. financial reform will protect taxpayers and depositors by separating risky, speculative "proprietary trading" from the business of banking. These reforms will make clear that banking entities must focus on their customers, and not on proprietary trading or hedge fund or private equity investments. It will also limit the derivatives activities of banks to derivatives regarding traditional banking products.
8. 
 
 Instead of seven federal agencies with only partial responsibilities for consumer financial protection, there will be one agency dedicated solely to establishing and enforcing clear rules of the road for banks, mortgage companies, payday lenders, and credit card lenders.
9. 
 
 U.S. financial reform will ban abusive practices in the mortgage markets, for example requiring mortgage brokers and banks to consider a family's ability to repay when making a loan. The reforms will also require lenders and Wall Street loan packagers to keep skin in the game when selling off loans to investors and make full disclosure so investors know what's in those packages. Reforms of credit rating agencies will help make sure investors do not rely unwisely on their ratings on these packages.
10. 
 
 Financial reform will ensure businesses a more stable and predictable source of credit through the business cycle and reduce the risk of a sharp and sudden cut?off because of financial panic. By making the financial system safer and stronger, reform will reduce the chances that a financial crisis deprives businesses of the credit they need to grow and to create jobs.