 Under Canada's leadership, the G-8 has launched the 
 on maternal and child health (MCH), a comprehensive and integrated approach to accelerate progress towards Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5, which seek to reduce by two-thirds the under-five child mortality rate, and reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio, respectively. The 
 will reduce the number of maternal, newborn and under-five child deaths in developing countries by supporting strengthened country-led national health systems in developing countries, to enable delivery of key interventions along the continuum of care. The 
 includes an initial, two-year commitment by the United States of $1.346 billion covering fiscal years 2010 and 2011, subject to Congressional appropriations.
 Four months into office, in May 2009, President Obama placed increased emphasis on U.S. programming for maternal and child health and family planning when he announced his six-year, $63 billion Global Health Initiative (GHI). The Muskoka Initiative complements the President's GHI, which partners with countries to improve health outcomes through strength­ened health systems, increased and integrated investments in HIV/AIDS, TB, malaria and neglected tropical diseases, and through a particular focus on improving the health of women, newborns and children.
While the GHI will be implemented in all countries receiving U.S. health assistance, eight "GHI Plus" countries, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Nepal and Rwanda, will receive additional technical, management, and financial resources to quickly implement GHI's approach, including integrated programs and investments across the spectrum of infectious diseases, maternal and child health, family planning, and health systems activities. GHI Plus countries will provide enhanced opportunities to build upon existing public health programs; improve program performance; and work in close collaboration with partner governments, across U.S. government agencies, and with global partners.
The GHI set out ambitious targets for improving maternal and child health to inspire an intensive effort. They include:
To achieve these goals, the GHI implements a business model that builds on these principles: