-President Abraham Lincoln, Message to Congress, December, 1862
This quote from Abraham Lincoln is appropriate because the crisis we face is deeper and broader than any crisis since the 1860s.
The 2012 election is not a political election in any normal sense of ambitious people competing for power within an accepted framework of values and principles.
It is an historic election in which the outcome will potentially change the nature of America for generations to come.
No simple set of slogans or "jobs programs" or poll driven gimmicks will meet the needs of America in 2012.
Consider the realities of our time.
America is dramatically and frighteningly on the wrong track:
Three large facts come from these ten specific challenges to the survival of America as the freest, most prosperous, and safest country in the world:
The scale of the challenge and the intensity of the opposition require that we approach a 21
 Century Contract with America with a much more profound and serious strategy than the original 1994 Contract with America.
The 21st Century Contract with America will therefore be much larger than the original, and will consist of four parts.
The center of activity for these four components exists at 
.
The first test of the 21
 Contract has to be its effectiveness. Assuming its implementation as outlined, does the Contract include everything that is required to put America back on the right track.
The second test of the 21
 Century Contract has to be its potential for popular support.
Putting America back on the right track will be an enormous, protracted struggle with entrenched elites. The American people have to decide that the struggle is legitimate and necessary and that they are determined that the elites will be defeated and their laws and systems will be replaced.
We have had seven decisive changes in American history (Founding Fathers, the Federalists, the Jeffersonians, the Jacksonians, the Lincoln Republicans, the Progressives, and the New Deal). Each has involved a deep intense struggle. In each case it took the will of the American people expressed at the ballot box to impose change on a hostile, entrenched, reactionary elite. In each case the struggle lasted for years and required flexibility and innovation from the reforming side.
The primary purpose of the 21
 Century Contract with America is to lay out the scale of change that is necessary and give the American people profound reasons to believe that with courageous, systematic effort we can get America back on the right track.
The secondary purpose of the 21
 Century Contract with America is to create a general management guidance so that everyone who wants to know where we are going and what we are trying to achieve will have a clear sense of purpose and definition.
There are three primary differences between the 21
 Century Contract with America and the original 1994 Contract with America:
There are three primary similarities between the 21
 Century Contract with America and the original 1994 Contract with America:
It is because of the very scale, seriousness, and intensity of the historic mission before the American people that I never ask people to be for me.
When people are for a candidate they vote and then go home expecting the candidate to get the job done.
The American Constitution does not give any leader the ability to impose this much change.
This kind of change only occurs when the American people are fully mobilized and focused on insisting that their elected officials follow through and get the job done.
Furthermore, the American people will have to monitor implementation and help us identify when things aren't working right. They will also have to help come up with better solutions when the first set sometimes fail to get the job done.
No one person can achieve change on this scale but millions of mobilized citizens can.
Finally, as we enforce the Tenth Amendment and shrink the Washington bureaucracy and return power to the states, citizens will have to rise and fill the gap left by the decline of bureaucracies.
For all these reasons I ask people to be with me for the next eight year in implementing the 21
 Century Contract with America. Please join me at 
.