WASHINGTON, DC – The Obama Administration will celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15th through October 15th with the participation of the President, the First Lady, the Vice President and the Second Lady of the United States, along with members of the Cabinet, Senior Administration officials and community partners at conferences, events, and through online features showcasing the impact Hispanics have had on our national life.

Numbering more than 50 million on the mainland and another 4 million in Puerto Rico, Hispanics are no longer found in a handful of states but all across America, according to the latest census numbers. As the largest and fastest growing minority group in America, the Hispanic community's ability to thrive is vital to the future of our nation and is critical to our out-educating, out-innovating, and out-building the rest of the world. In this spirit, the theme of Hispanic Heritage Month 2011 will be "Renewing the American Dream," and will feature a weekly focus on key issue areas including jobs and the economy, healthy communities and healthy families, an education for the 21st century, and celebrating the heritage and contributions of Hispanics to the fabric of America.

In addition to officials leading events and participating in conferences, the White House will feature Hispanics from throughout the Administration who are contributing to the President's vision for winning the future in a daily blog post on "Renewing the American Dream" at 
. On select White House tours, there will also be brochures on the work of the Administration and the Hispanic community and photographs showcasing the same theme.

For a recent report on the President's agenda and the Hispanic community, please click 
.







•      Wednesday, September 14th - The President and the First Lady will attend the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute's 34th Annual Awards Gala at the Washington Convention Center, where the President will deliver remarks. Please direct questions on press credential Please register for credentials online at 


•      Monday, September 12th – Thursday, September 15th – Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Conference
Cabinet Secretaries and other Administration officials will participate in a series of panels and events as part of the Congressional Hispanic Institute Conference, including:


o The Honorable Shaun Donovan, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development

o Ambassador Ron Kirk, U.S. Trade Representative

o The Honorable Ken Salazar, Secretary of the Interior

o The Honorable Hilda Solis, Secretary of Labor

o Robert Velasco, Acting Director, Corporation for National and Community Service

o Elizabeth J. Fowler, Special Assistant to the President for Healthcare and Economic Policy at the National Economic Council

o Cecilia Muñoz, White House Director of Intergovernmental Affairs

o Luis A. Aguilar, Commissioner, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

o Dr. Rosalinda Barrera, Assistant Deputy Secretary and Director of the Office of English Language Acquisition, U.S. Department of Education

o Julius Genachowski, Chairman, Federal Communications Commission

o Fred P. Hochberg, Chairman and President, Export-Import Bank of the United States

o Cathy McCully, Chief, Census Redistricting Data Office
•      Thursday, September 15th – The President signs Hispanic Heritage Month proclamation

•      Thursday, September 15th – FEMA Hispanic Heritage Month Preparedness Summit
Organizations and leaders from across the country will participate at a summit at the Federal Emergency Management Agency on preparedness and 
.

•      Thursday, September 15th – The First Lady delivers a greeting via video to the Hispanic Heritage Awards.

•      Thursday, September 15th – Renewing the American dream series begins on 
 highlighting Hispanics in the Obama Administration and their work on behalf of all Americans.

– A focus on jobs and the economy.

•      This week the Obama Administration will also celebrate Citizenship Day and Constitution Week, held annually September 17th – 23rd highlighting the contributions of generations of Latino immigrants who renew America's entrepreneurial spirit and are helping us write the next great chapter in America's story. As a part of the week's activities, the White House will host a special screening of Citizen USA: A 50 State Road Trip, directed by Alexandra Pelosi and recently featured on HBO.

A focus on healthy families and healthy communities

 
 – A focus on renewing our nation's education system for the 21st century

A focus oncelebrating Hispanic heritage and contributions

Additional information on specific events for each week will be released throughout the month.