Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) announced today that he and his family will embark on a three week, "Courage to Fight for American Values" tour of Iowa, crisscrossing Iowa to meet with Iowans from all corners of the state as well as take part in many of the summer family traditions Iowa has to offer. The Santorum family will begin their journey on July 26th and will tour Iowa through the August 13th Ames Straw Poll.
"We are excited about the opportunity to spend our summer in Iowa," said Senator Santorum. "The reception I have received from the people of Iowa over the past year has been wonderful, and I cannot wait for my entire family to experience the many sites and sounds our heartland has to offer. This is a crucial time in our nation's history, and the people of Iowa play a key role in helping to put our nation back on track. We need to have the courage to fight for the values that made America the greatest nation in the history of the world and my entire family looks forward to continuing our dialogue about the issues facing our families, our communities, and our country."
The Santorum family will visit over 50 cities across Iowa on the following days:

Ankeny, Boone, Ft. Dodge, Storm Lake, Sibley

Onawa, Missouri, Council Bluffs, Des Moines



Ottumwa, Ft. Madison, Burlington, Mt. Pleasant, Pleasantville



Osceola, Indianola, Winterset, Dexter, Des Moines



Des Moines, Ankeny, Oskaloosa

Washington, Muscatine, Davenport, Clinton, Tipton

Indianola, Des Moines, Perry, Jefferson, Carroll, Atlantic

Council Bluffs, Harlan, Ida Grove, Cherokee, Sanborn

Rock Rapids, Orange City, Sioux City, Des Moines

Des Moines, Marshalltown, Newton, Grinnell, Tiffin,

Eagle Grove, Roland, Hubbard

Sioux City, Algona

Ames, Webster City, Iowa Falls, Mason City, Charles City, Waverly

Waterloo, Independence, Oelwein, Strawberry Point, Manchester, Dubuque

Maquoketa, Anamosa, Cedar Rapids, Des Moines

Ames



Iowa State Fair

Ames
Specific event locations and times will be announced in the coming days.