
  


Mitt Romney has maintained for weeks a decidedly low profile amid the frenzied debate over boosting the nation's credit limit, even as he seeks to confine the terms of debate with President Barack Obama to the economy.
Apart from 
 for Speaker John Boehner's since-tabled proposal, the Bay Stater's buttoned lip was so conspicuous that his punim began appearing on 
s. But he broke his extended silence yesterday, after a compromise framework had been already established and the entirety of the primary field had evaluated it, to offer this 11th hour pronouncement: You're doing it wrong. ("I personally cannot support this deal," Romney said in a Monday statement.)
Of course, Romney offered at no juncture guidance to Congressional negotiators as they hashed out the contentious, dueling proposals to raise the nation's debt ceiling. 
!
The end to Romney's absenteeism -- which aides told the Huffington Post yesterday was a 
 to "avoid commenting before the contours of a deal became clear" -- came only after Jon Huntsman, who first backed the Boehner bill and later the new compromise plan, began pressing his fellow former governor to reveal his position. ("If you're not willing to lead out during the time of this debt ceiling debate, then that should raise some questions about when you are, in fact, going to take a position and lead out," 
.)
Gov. Huntsman echoed that criticism yesterday in New Hampshire, telling a press gaggle that 
. "It's easy to take a political position later on," Huntsman said. "It's tough to take a position early on, which is the real world," adding that "leaders step up."
But it appears our skepticism of Romney's politics of convenience is shared by even prominent former endorsers and advisers of the Massachusetts governor. Rich Lowry, whose editorship of the the conservative National Review saw the influential mag offer its endorsement to Romney in his first presidential bid, offered yesterday this sarcastic gem on Twitter: "
?" And GOP strategist Mike Murphy, who steered Romney through his maiden primary voyage three years earlier, 
 on the same medium, saying Romney's transparent tack was "surprising and depressing."
Huntsman, meanwhile, made no secret of his position on the various proposals floating through Congress.
"While this framework is not my preferred outcome, it is a positive step toward cutting our nation's crippling debt," the governor, who now stands as the lone Republican presidential contender not complicit in a dangerous lurch toward default, said of the compromise plan in a 
: