
  


Addressing last week a to-capacity Dartmouth College auditorium, Jon Huntsman laid out the framework from which he evaluates all American military entanglements: Does the deployment of precious troops and resources speak to the nation's core interests?
As he later emphasized in an 
 with National Review's Elise Jordan, unchecked military exercises, particularly those waged in the fractured, tribal nations of Libya and Afghanistan, won't affect the change for which unemployed Americans yearn. "The future of the United States is not going to be determined by firefights on the Hindu Kush," a mountain range stretching across the Afghan-Pakistan border, he told the conservative magazine.
Indeed, in the intervening months since his return from atop America's diplomatic mission in China, Huntsman has offered the sharpest criticism of a war effort in Afghanistan he no longer sees as proportional to the threat -- or benefit. ("If you can't define a winning exit strategy for the American people, where we somehow come out ahead, then we're 
, and we're wasting our strategic resources," Huntsman told Esquire earlier this year.)
But Jordan, a former National Security Council aide and speechwriter for Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, wonders if conservative Tea Party activists will find affinity with Huntsman for his blunt talk on the price tag affixed to our bloated Afghanistan presence:
There's something to Jordan's curiosity, with a growing universe of polling having found a majority of Americans -- even a majority of conservatives and self-identified Tea Party activists -- favoring a reduction in our decade-long troop presence in Afghanistan. A January poll found 
, with 64 percent of the former and 66 percent of the latter supporting a troop reduction.
But the ledgers for Libya and Afghanistan represent only half of the bifurcated do-or-don't war equation, which necessitates the nation not overextend militarily lest it ignore the calls of our allies in times of distress -- like 
. ("Now if ever there was a reason to consider using US force, it would be in pursuit of situations like that," Huntsman told New Hampshire's WMUR earlier this year.)
Gov. Huntsman didn't launch his candidacy to shy from the transcendent questions of our time, foreign and domestic, for which Jordan says primary voters have begun tuning into his message. "He's carefully explained how he looks at the world; now it's time for the world -- or at least the area of the world running from Hanover to Manchester to Portsmouth -- to take a careful look at Huntsman."
If only the party could expect the same candor from its front runner.