Macon, GA – Newt Gingrich, speaking to the Georgia Republican Party Convention, will outline a bold job creation plan to win the future, one fundamentally different than the "too little-too late" big government policies of the Obama administration.
Gingrich will point out that the average length of recession since World War II has lasted just ten months and that historically, the worse the downturn, the stronger the recovery. Yet forty months after the recession started, we are still at 9% unemployment (16% counting the underemployed), the longest stretch of such high unemployment since the Great Depression.
"Part of what makes America exceptional is a dynamic, entrepreneurial spirit that has made the American economy the most resilient in the world. But big government taxes, regulations and bureaucracies are holding us back," said Gingrich.
"With the right pro-growth policies we can get the right results. America can once again be the number one place on the planet to invest and create jobs," Gingrich added.
Gingrich represented Georgia's 6
 Congressional district for 20 years and helped build the Georgia Republican Party from a minority in state and federal office representation to the majority it is today. He has been active in shaping Georgia Republican Party politics for over forty years.
"I look forward to being with my many friends today in Macon," said Gingrich.
Gingrich will also criticized President Obama as a "permanent candidate" more interested in scoring political points than getting things done.
"From jobs, to the deficit, to our broken immigration system, our country faces real challenges that will require us to come together as Americans," said Gingrich. "But President Obama has made it clear he is more interested in distorting Republican ideas and scaring Americans than actually solving problems."
The Gingrich Jobs and Prosperity Plan includes:
####
Note: The Georgia Republican Convention and Gingrich's remarks are open to the media.
MACON CENTERPLEX

BALLROOM

200 COLISEUM DRIVE

MACON, GA 31217
Gingrich speaks at 7:25pm. He will be introduced Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, who has endorsed Newt Gingrich and will chair his campaign in Georgia.