President Obama and President Piñera enjoyed meaningful and productive meetings during the President's visit to Santiago. They highlighted the strong and natural ties between the United States and Chile and sought to build on their relationship on issues of regional and global importance. In the spirit of enhanced partnership, the two Heads of State agreed to broaden cooperation in several areas. These include:



The United States and Chile are strong partners in trade and investment as well as energy, climate change, and environmental cooperation. This relationship is based on a common commitment to an open market economy as the key determinant of economic growth, development, and job creation. Bilateral trade has more than doubled since the U.S.-Chile Free Trade Agreement (FTA) entered into force in 2004. During 2011, the United States and Chile will eliminate tariffs on 134 products, further promoting trade between our two countries. We are cooperating on a number of other issues, including active negotiations for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a 21st century high-standard trade agreement embracing dynamic economies across the Asia Pacific region. In addition, the two Presidents agreed to continue to work together bilaterally and regionally to protect the environment, combat climate change, and enhance clean energy development and deployment.




The United States and Chile work closely together on development programs in Latin America where we partner to reduce poverty, improve social conditions, and bolster the institutions critical to increased stability and prosperity in the hemisphere. We are engaged together on important work in Central and South America to promote developing countries' trade, agricultural best practices, and citizen security.

The United States shares a strong defense cooperation relationship with Chile. Our nations are committed to working together to ensure regional preparedness for natural disasters and to share best practices in crisis management. The United States and Chile are also committed to regional citizen security and will seek to broaden cooperation in this area.




The United States and Chile have sought to expand cooperation on innovation and entrepreneurship as the driving force for increased productivity and competitiveness. We seek to continue promoting collaboration between universities in exchanges and joint research programs. Similarly, we enjoy robust English language education programs and will look to increase the breadth of this initiative.

The United States and Chile enjoy effective collaboration in the fields of astronomy and astro-engineering, with close collaboration between public and private academic and research institutions in both countries.

•      To view the fact sheet on Education Programs click 
.

•      To view the Letter of Intent on English Language Training click 
. In Spanish, click 
.



The United States and Chile are committed to strengthening coordination on aspects of mutual interests in multilateral forums, including the Rule of Law, democracy and full respect for human rights and fundamental liberties. Our nations enjoy growing cooperation as members of the UN Human Rights Council and as members of the Community of Democracies.