"Newt Gingrich borrowed talking points from Barack Obama and the SEIU on illegal immigration and used them to attack Mitt Romney's conservative approach. He was rebuked by Marco Rubio for doing it, and had to retreat. Then he attacked his own position on immigration. This is who Newt Gingrich is: an unreliable leader who undermines conservatives, hurts our party, and emboldens President Obama and his liberal allies." —Albert Martinez, Romney for President spokesman
 "'How close were to breaking out and laughing out loud about this fantasy?' Newt said mockingly while discussing Mitt Romney's idea of 'self deportation' during his interview with Univision this morning." (Charlie Spiering, "Gingrich Mocks Romney's Wealth; Self-Deportation," 
, 12/25/12)
 
 "On the Gingrich campaign website, the top item in the 'solutions' section presents a 10-step plan for addressing illegal immigration. ... A spokesman for Gingrich said only a small percentage of current illegal immigrants would likely be allowed to stay. '
" (
, 11/29/11)
 LAURA INGRAHAM: "We have to enforce this law. We have to do that first. No work, self deportation. Come back. We can figure out our immigration system after we enforce this border. You're not going to get the support of the people unless we really see that border enforced." GINGRICH: "
. I'm against comprehensive reform." ("
," 12/3/10)
 "Everyone currently working in the United States illegally must return to their home country to apply for the worker visa program. 
." (American Solutions Website, 
, Archived 10/22/08)
 "'Sen. Marco Rubio scolded Newt Gingrich's presidential campaign over a Spanish-language radio ad that accuses rival Mitt Romney of being 'anti-immigrant' 'This kind of language is more than just unfortunate. It's inaccurate, inflammatory, and doesn't belong in this campaign,' Rubio told The Miami Herald when asked about the ad." ("Rubio Scolds Gingrich Camp, Says Ad Bashing 'Anti-Immigrant' Romney Is 'Inaccurate, Inflammatory'," 
, 1/25/12)
 "In the wake of Sen. Marco Rubio's denunciation of Newt Gingrich's ad calling Mitt Romney 'anti-immigrant,' the Romney campaign's Hispanic leadership team — headlined by former Sen. Mel Martinez — is demanding that Gingrich pull down the radio spot. But Gingrich already plans to do it. 'We respect the senator's wishes,' said Gingrich's campaign chairman." ("Romney's Hispanic Leadership Team: Newt, Pull Down Your Ad. Gingrich: I Will," 
, 1/25/12)