To:       Interested Parties

From:   Lanhee Chen, Ph.D., Policy Director

Re:       President Obama's Economic Failure
President Obama has apparently decided to run as the "jobs" candidate, with extensive experience "work[ing] alongside hardworking Americans" in the real economy.  Presumably this is similar to being a hardworking American in the real economy.  You can enjoy his campaign's full memo, describing him as a President who "has taken formidable, decisive steps to protect free enterprise," 
. The President will have all year to elaborate on how his time as a community organizer helped him understand the implications of tax increases for investment decisions, the impact that overregulation can have on business confidence, and the way that trade policies can support or disadvantage American exporters.  He can also describe for voters how his law school lecturing duties showed him the extraordinary economic potential of the nation's energy resources or the challenges that power-grabbing union bosses pose to businesses and workers.   Best of all, he can explain how his $787 billion stimulus bill, his $450 billion proposed second stimulus, his thousands of pages Dodd-Frank and Obamacare legislation, his unprecedented increases in regulation, and his handouts to politically-connected union bosses and "green" energy projects served to decisively protect free enterprise. But no amount of speech-making will persuade the American people that his economic record has been anything other than an unmitigated disaster. 
 
 The statistics paint a sobering picture for just what President Obama has achieved in his fight to "help the middle class reclaim a sense of economic security that will benefit the entire economy":  
 When Barack Obama ran for the presidency, he promised to "fundamentally transform the United States of America."  Sadly, he is succeeding.  He is pushing America toward a European-style entitlement society that would have been unrecognizable to our parents' generation - let alone the Founders' - with diminishing economic opportunity and ever-growing government programs and regulations.   The election this November will be about whether the America want to continue in this direction, or reverse course and rebuild the Opportunity Society that has made her the greatest in the history of the world.  Mitt Romney looks forward to offering voters that choice. 