: Extending massive tax breaks to millionaires, billionaires, and large corporations while only offering the typical middle-class family a $54 tax cut
 While President Obama has repeatedly passed temporary extensions of the Bush Tax Cuts, Governor Romney has called for making them permanent. ("Effect of Expiration of Bush-Era Tax Cuts on Average Middle-Income Family, by State and Congressional District," 
, 8/1/10)
: Letting Wall Street write their own rules again, putting taxpayers on the hook for future bailouts and middle-class security at risk
 He believes in a system of financial regulation that includes some of the concepts contained in Dodd-Frank.   Unlike the massive and bureaucratic system put in place by Dodd-Frank, however, Mitt has called for a "simple, predictable, and efficient regulatory system appropriate for our dynamic economy."
: Repealing the Affordable Care Act, allowing insurance companies go back to the days of dropping coverage when you get sick, double-digit premium increases or denying coverage because of a pre-existing condition
  Romney has called for federal regulation to be focused on "making markets work" by, for instance, "[e]nsur[ing] that individuals with pre-existing conditions who are continuously covered for a specified period may not be denied coverage." (Romney For President, "Repeal Obamacare, Reform Health Care," Press Release, 5/12/11)
: Privatizing Medicare and telling seniors they're on their own to pay for their health care coverage
 The plan has now been endorsed in the bipartisan proposal by Rep. Paul Ryan and Sen. Ron Wyden.
: Rubberstamping the Republican budget plan that would lead to deep cuts in Social Security and wipe out investments in education and programs essential to creating jobs for the middle class, while refusing to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share
  His plan places Social Security on a path to sustainability with no changes for those at or near retirement, by gradually raising the retirement age for future seniors and lowering the growth rate in benefits for wealthy retirees.  "No one at or near the retirement age will see any changes and tax hikes cannot be on the table. Instead, Social Security can be placed on a sustainable trajectory with commonsense reforms: Gradually raise the retirement age to reflect increases in longevity; Slow the growth in benefits for higher-income retirees." (Romney For President, "Romney Presents Plan To Turn Around The Federal Government," 
, 11/4/11)
  The Obama campaign's claim is simply false.
: As corporate buyout specialist, firing thousands of workers, closing dozens of plants and outsourcing jobs to China to boost profits for himself and his partners
 
  Apparently the Obama campaign couldn't come up with ten items for its list and instead added this bizarre entry that has no bearing on the policies Mitt Romney has proposed to help the middle class by restoring economic growth and job creation.
: Letting Detroit go bankrupt instead of extending a rescue loan to the auto industry that saved 1.4 million jobs and the auto manufacturers from liquidation
  Unfortunately, it took the federal government several false starts and billions in wasted taxpayer dollars to get there.
: Letting the foreclosure process "hit the bottom" so that investors can come in and make a quick buck, rather than promoting refinancing opportunities for responsible homeowners
  And he has admitted that his housing policies have been a failure.  "I think that the continuing decline in the housing market is something that hasn't bottomed out as quickly as we expected.  And so that's continued to be a big drag on the economy.  We've had to revamp our housing program several times to try to help people stay in their homes and try to start lifting home values up.  But of all the things we've done, that's probably been the area that's been most stubborn to us trying to solve the problem." (Barack Obama, 
, 7/6/11)
: Eliminating the estate tax for millionaires and billionaires and making seniors and the middle-class foot the bill
  Middle class families attempting to pass down small businesses and family farms are badly affected by the estate tax.  Perhaps this is why Americans support its repeal by 4-to-1.  ("Americans' Views On Taxes," 
, March 2003)
: Undermining collective bargaining rights for workers, taking away a seat at the table for middle-class families when their economic livelihoods are on the line
  "Mitt Romney believes in the right of workers to join a union or to not join a union. To exercise that right freely, workers must have access to all the relevant facts they need to make an informed decision. This means hearing from both the union about the potential benefits and from management about potential costs. This also means being able to act on that decision in the privacy of the ballot booth." (Mitt Romney, "Believe In America," 2011, p. 109)