 "On health care, Romney responded ‘yes' when asked if he would sign the plan written by Rep. Paul Ryan that would restructure Medicare if it reached his desk as President, but quickly added that he would be offering his own plan." (Emily Friedman, "Romney Talks To ABC News About Health Care, Jobs, Ties And Red Sox," 
, 6/2/11)
 
 ("Updated: Prez Hopefuls Back Ryan's Budget Axe," 
, 4/5/11)
 ROMNEY: "I applaud Representative Ryan for putting a plan on the table that acknowledges that Medicare can't go on like it is without ultimately hitting a wall. I want Medicare to survive not just for those that are current retirees or near retirees — and of course the Ryan plan doesn't change Medicare for any retiree or near retiree — but I want Medicare to survive for younger people, in their 20s, 30s, 40s, and early 50s, and Paul Ryan lays out a plan to do just that. I'm waiting to see what Democrats have. I know at this stage all they have is criticism. But if we don't make any changes, then Medicare won't be there for the next generation and that's unacceptable to me. So I appreciate what Paul Ryan has done." (Mitt Romney, Remarks in Ankeny, IA, 5/27/11)
 "I asked [Ryan] about Romney's decision to offer traditional Medicare as one option in the premium support plan. He said that he and former Fed vice chairwoman Alice Rivlin had discussed that idea, and so long as the government, as Romney detailed, would provide a capped amount to be used either for traditional Medicare or for private plans, the same cost savings could be obtained under Romney's plan as under the plan Ryan proposed as part of the 2012 budget. Ryan deemed this approach as ‘perfectly in keeping with serious reform.'" (Jennifer Rubin, "Exclusive Interview: Paul Ryan Has Nothing But Praise For Romney Plan," 
, 11/4/11)
Mitt Romney has laid out the approach he would take to modernizing America's entitlement programs, guaranteeing their continued vitality for future generations.  Romney's proposals would not affect today's seniors or those nearing retirement, and they would not raise taxes.  Romney proposes that tomorrow's Medicare should give beneficiaries a generous defined contribution, or "premium support," and allow them to choose between private plans and traditional Medicare.
The Romney plan honors commitments to current seniors while giving the next generation an improved program that offers the freedom to choose what their coverage under Medicare should look like.  Instead of paying providers directly for medical services, the government's role will be to help future seniors pay for an insurance option that provides coverage at least as good as today's Medicare, and to offer traditional Medicare as one of the insurance options that seniors can choose.  With insurers competing against each other to provide the best value to customers, efficiency and quality will improve and costs will decline.  Seniors will be allowed to keep the savings from less expensive options or choose to pay more for costlier plans.
 