Mitt Romney today announced the support of former Tennessee Governor Winfield Dunn and a group of top Tennessee legislators, led by Romney's Legislative Co-Chairs, State Representatives Barrett Rich from West Tennessee, and Ryan Haynes from East Tennessee.
"I am proud to have earned the support of these strong, conservative leaders from Tennessee," said Mitt Romney. "No one is more highly regarded for his love of country and his public service than Winfield Dunn.  And I look forward to working with Governor Dunn and these outstanding legislative leaders as we come together to get more Tennesseans back to work and our country moving in the right direction again."
"Today, our nation desperately needs a strong and principled leader like Mitt Romney," said Governor Dunn, who serves as the Romney campaign's Honorary Chairman in Tennessee. "President Obama's policies have turned our economy upside down, and Americans are suffering because of his failed leadership. But Mitt Romney knows what to do.  He is the right man at the right time.  I am proud to support him."
Announcing his support, House Majority Leader Gerald McCormick from Chattanooga said, "Mitt Romney has shown his ability to tackle and solve big problems, as a successful businessman, as the rescuer of the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, and as the Governor of Massachusetts.  Now we need his strong leadership in Washington to help fix the mess we find ourselves in, and to get our economy moving again."
"I am proud to support Mitt Romney for President," said State Representative Mark White from Memphis. "If the Republican Party fails to nominate a candidate who can win, we will not get a second chance. So while I supported Governor Rick Perry early in this campaign, I now support and endorse Mitt Romney for President. I believe he is the one candidate who can beat Barack Obama, with the experience we need to create jobs, pump life into the economy and put America back on strong footing."
Earlier this week, Romney 
 from Tennessee Congressmen Jimmy Duncan, Diane Black and Phil Roe.