Urbandale, IA - Republican Presidential Candidate Rick Santorum announced additional members of his presidential campaign's Iowa Steering Committee. These prominent Iowa activists are in addition to the nearly two dozen Steering Committee members announced this past Summer and the hundreds of Iowans who have signed up as Caucus Captains for the Santorum campaign.
Senator Santorum said: "I am thrilled to add this amazing group of influential conservative and faith leaders to my campaign's Iowa Steering Committee. Their reach throughout the Hawkeye State will be a tremendous asset to our campaign and the momentum they are helping us build will be a key to our victory on January 3
. I am honored to have their endorsement today and their tireless efforts on behalf of our campaign for faith, family and freedom."
New members of the Santorum for President Iowa Steering Committee include:
 is the former head wrestling coach at Iowa State University, where he led the Cyclones to the 1987 national championship, and was a three-time All-American and a 1981 national champion as well. Since leaving Iowa State University, Gibbons has become active in Republican politics, most recently running for Congress and now an official in the Office of the Iowa Secretary of State.
 is the former Executive Director of the Iowa Republican Party and former Chief of Staff to Rep. Steve King (R-IA).
 is Iowa's Republican National Committeewoman and President of the John Paul II Stem Cell Research Institute. Lehman previously served as President of Iowa Right to Life.
 is the pastor of Sioux City's Cornerstone Church and President of PeaceMakers Institute. Pastor Gordon played a crucial role in the defeat of three Iowa Supreme Court justices in the 2010 elections.
 (R-Maxwell) serves on the Iowa State Senate Economic Growth/Rebuild Iowa, Human Resources, Local Government, and Veterans Affairs Committees.
 is the Director of the Iowa Policy Institute.
 is the former Chairwoman of the Iowa Federation of Republican Women.
 is the pastor of the Newton Christian Reformed Church in Newton, IA.
 is a Woodbury County Republican Central Committee member as well as chairwoman of the Woodbury County Chapter of Concerned Women for America. In 2008, Rep. Steve King (R-IA) named Holub his political volunteer of the year.
 is one of Iowa's leading social conservative activists, serving as former Governor Mike Huckabee's Iowa Director for his political action committee HuckPAC.
 (R-Keystone) is the Assistant Republican Leader in the Iowa State Senate. Kapucian is the past president of the Iowa Pork Producers.
 is former Republican Party County Chair for Plymouth County, Iowa.
 (R-Mt. Auburn) is a former mayor and city council person of Mt. Auburn.
 (R-Cedar Falls) also sits on the board of the Safe and Drug Free Committee, Alternatives Pregnancy Center, My Waterloo Days and Love Cedar Valley.
 is the Republican Party County Chair for Winnebago County, Iowa.
 is a well-respected pro-life, pro-family activist who has served as Legislative Director to Iowa Right to Life and Legislative Liaison to Iowa Association of Christian Schools.
In addition to the names noted above, the following Iowa conservative leaders were previously named to the Santorum for President Iowa Steering Committee: