WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individual to a key Administration post:

•      
– Member, Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation

The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:

•      
 Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board

•      
Member, Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

 said, "The extraordinary dedication these men and women bring to their new roles will greatly serve the American people. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."





Pauline Maier is the William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor of American History at MIT. Dr. Maier's publications include 
; 
; and 
, a textbook for junior-high-school students. Additionally, she authored 
which was on the New York Times Book Review editors "Choice" list of the best eleven books of 1997 and a finalist in General Nonfiction for the National Book Critics' Circle Award. Dr. Maier's most recent book, 
, was on the 
's list of the ten best books of 2011 and won several prizes including the George Washington Book Prize and the American Historical Association's Littleton Griswold Prize. In 1998, she received MIT's Killian Award, given annually to one senior faculty member for outstanding achievement. Dr. Maier received her B.A. from Radcliffe College and her Ph.D. from Harvard University.





Joan W. Harris is the President of The Irving Harris Foundation. She currently serves on the boards of the Chicago Symphony and the Juilliard School. Ms. Harris has previously served as President, Director and Trustee of fourteen different Chicago, statewide and national cultural organizations, including the President's Commission for the National Endowment for the Arts, as Commissioner of the Department of Cultural Affairs for the City of Chicago, and as President of the Chicago Opera Theater and the Illinois Arts Alliance. She is a Past Chair of the Harris Theater for Music and Dance and the Aspen Music Festival and School. Ms. Harris received a B.A. from Smith College.



Dallas L. Salisbury is President and CEO of the Employee Benefit Research Institute (EBRI), which he joined as chief staff executive at its founding in 1978. During his time at EBRI, Mr. Salisbury has been involved in the creation of the American Savings Education Council, the National Academy of Human Resources, and the public financial education campaign, Choose to Save. Mr. Salisbury is a member of several Boards of Directors and advisory boards, including the Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Advisory Committee, the Board of Advisors to the Comptroller General of the United States, and the Board of Directors of the FINRA Investor Education Foundation. Prior to joining EBRI, Mr. Salisbury held positions with the Washington State Legislature, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Employee Benefits Security Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Mr. Salisbury previously served on the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 1991 to 1994, having been appointed by President George H. W. Bush. He holds a B.A. in Finance from the University of Washington and an M.P.A. from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University.