 (Mark Halperin, "Transcript: Gov. John Sununu And Sen. Jim Talent Press Conference Call," 
, 12/8/11)
 (Alexander Burns, "Tom Coburn, Still Not A Newt Gingrich Fan," 
, 12/4/11)
 (Reid Pillifant, "Pete King: Gingrich Is Condescending, Undisciplined, And Bad For The GOP," 
, 12/2/11)
 (Nancy Cordes, "Gingrich Has His Critics Among GOP Members," 
, 12/7/11)
 (Cameron Joseph, "Republican Lawmakers Shun Gingrich's Presidential Bid," 
, 11/24/11)
 "Personally, LaTourette said, he has a ‘hangover' from the days of Gingrich's speakership, when ‘everything always seemed to be on fire.'" (Laurie Kellman, "Gingrich Surge Unnerves Some Republican Lawmakers," 
, 12/8/11)
 "As Gingrich seeks to gain the world's most powerful office, it's worth recalling that when he once held great power in Washington, his own conservative Republican lieutenants rebelled against his rule less than four years after he led them to House majority status for the first time in 40 years. And their disaffection evidently helped persuade him to step down as speaker the next year and leave office." (William Douglas, "When Gingrich Held Power, His GOP Lieutenants Tried To Topple Him
 
, 12/7/11)
 "Gingrich as Speaker — and since then, some critics would argue — opined on any subject that struck his fancy, often changed directions after convincing the Republican Conference to support a particular political message, was viewed as a micromanager who had trouble delegating and who lacked organizational skills, and was tagged as arrogant, divisive and unlikable outside the GOP base. As a well-known public figure, Gingrich would have to work to undo this last definition in particular." (David M. Drucker, "Lack Of Discipline Could Bite Gingrich," 
, 12/5/11)
Long before Newt Gingrich became speaker of the House, his closest Republican allies knew he was a managerial disaster, a mercurial force of nature who bubbled with ideas but lacked discipline. Their assessment explains why many Republicans who have dealt with Gingrich over the years exhibit almost feral anxiety about what a Gingrich general-election campaign--let alone, a presidency--would be like." (Major Garrett, "Gingrich: Managerial Disaster?" 
, 12/9/11)