Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) released his plan to revitalize and rejuvenate the American economy by empowering American families and building economic freedom.
Rick Santorum believes that to have a strong national economy, we must have strong families. We are a land of opportunity where all Americans should have the chance to rise on their own merits and hard work. Sadly, President Obama believes just the opposite and is using class warfare to divide this country.
Rick Santorum is committed to celebrating the family by reviving our economy and creating jobs in America again with a smarter and simpler tax code. Santorum will roll back job-killing regulations, force the federal government to shrink and live within its means by passing a Balanced Budget Amendment and reinvigorate our domestic manufacturing and energy potential. His vision for America is to restore America's greatness through the promotion of faith, family and freedom.
Rick Santorum said: "Our nation's first economy is the family, and we must create an environment where families can thrive and succeed in America again. Government must get out of the way, and encourage an economic environment where the American entrepreneurial spirit can again take our nation to the heights of success. My plan does just that - it fosters families, gets the government out of the way, and rebuilds the great middle of America that has been lost over the past 50 years. It's time that we focus on getting American back to work."
Santorum said: "We need to get our economy going again, and those who are struggling the most is the great middle of America that has seen their manufacturing jobs flow to India and China. We must reverse course by rebuilding the engine that drove America as a world power. I grew up in a steel town and know first-hand how our nation's first economy, the family, has been hit over the past half-century. I'm ready and able to provide the leadership to make made in America a theme of pride again."
During his time in public office, Senator Santorum was a strong advocate for a family and small business-friendly tax code, serving as the leader to pass the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 that revitalized our economy after the terrorist attacks of 9/11. For his work on reducing the tax burden on all Americans, Senator Santorum has received praise from groups ranging from the Club for Growth to Americans for Tax Reform and the National Federation of Independent Business.