"For years, I have been warning of Iran's nuclear ambitions and proposing specific steps to thwart them. It is now clear that our window of opportunity to stop the Iranian nuclear nightmare is quickly closing. To convince Iran to end its nuclear program peacefully, I call on President Obama to impose crippling economic sanctions on the Iranian regime, support the Iranian dissidents, and convey through actions – not just words – that the military option is very real and very credible. The Iranian regime only understands strength. We can no longer afford President Obama's policy of trepidation, ineptitude, and weakness toward Iran. The United States must show leadership on the world stage, and do so now, to prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear power." – Mitt Romney Mitt Romney believes it is unacceptable for Iran to possess a nuclear weapon. For years, Mitt Romney has warned of Iran's nuclear ambitions and proposed specific steps to thwart the ayatollahs' nuclear program. A nuclear-armed Iran will tilt the entire geostrategic landscape of the Middle East toward the ayatollahs, pose an existential threat to Israel, endanger Europe and eventually endanger the continental United States. It may provoke a nightmarish cascade across the Middle East and give Iran's sponsorship of terrorism a new and terrifying dimension.
As president, Mitt Romney will adopt a comprehensive strategy to end Iran's pursuit of a nuclear weapon and eliminate these threats.
Mitt Romney will make clear to the Iranian regime through actions – not just words – that a military option to deal with its nuclear program remains on the table. Only if Iran understands that the United States is determined that a nuclear-armed Iran is unacceptable will there be any possibility that Iran will give up its nuclear aspirations peacefully.
The current regime of sanctions has not been effective in pressuring the Iranian regime. Mitt Romney will therefore increase economic pressure on Iran.
The United States and our European and Middle Eastern allies have a vital interest in establishing a fully operational and effective missile defense system in Eastern Europe to create a protective umbrella against Iranian nuclear weapons. Under pressure from Russia, President Obama early in his term scrapped President Bush's missile defense plan in favor of a plan that featured a longer development timeline and technologies yet-to-be developed. As president, Mitt Romney will commit to Obama's plan, but with the following two qualifications.