Newt Gingrich is the Only Candidate Who Has Led Entitlement Reform on a National Level
Americans work their entire lives to pay for their hard-earned retirement benefits, and as Americans now enjoy longer and healthier lives than ever, these benefits must be protected and made even stronger.
Newt Gingrich rejects the idea that we can solve our budget and debt crisis by some combination of cutting benefits and raising taxes within the current framework of these two programs.
Instead, we need to think outside the box with fundamental, structural reforms that would transform and modernize these two programs, changing how they work to achieve their goals.
Newt Gingrich is the only candidate who has led entitlement reform on a national level. His landmark 1996 welfare reform legislation introduced work requirements, lowered the welfare rolls by two-thirds, and helped bring millions out of poverty.
The Gingrich plan will address the redundancies and inefficiencies in our other federal means-tested programs, and seek reforms based on the lessons and success of the 1996 reforms.
By modernizing our old fashioned, redistributive entitlement programs to tap the power of markets and local innovation, we can achieve all of the social goals of these entitlement programs far more effectively, serving seniors and the poor far better, 
.
Just like with Romneycare, many of Governor Romney's rationing proposals for Social Security and Medicare empower big government to make decisions instead of empowering the American people. Additionally, he supports returning the payroll tax on employees from 4.2% to 6.2% in the middle of a recession.
The Romney Plan will raise the Washington-mandated age at which Americans can retire.
Romney supports returning the payroll tax on employees to 6.2%.
The Romney plan will also give Americans a choice between traditional Medicare and private accounts. However, this plan will will make Americans wait longer to be eligible for Medicare, and will introduce rationing of care, via means testing, for upper- and middle-income Americans who have paid payroll taxes their entire lives.
Instead of creating new wealth and savings by tapping the market power of private insurance and personal accounts, Romney tinkers with the existing system by introducing rationing through means testing. Studies of Social Security proposals similar to Romney's would see the benefits for average income Americans being reduced by over 15% by 2050.
.
.
.