Since the Pittsburgh Summit, the Group of Twenty (G-20) has responded decisively to the global financial crisis with an international financial regulatory reform agenda that is extraordinary both for its breadth and its level of heightened international cooperation. The agenda has strengthened the resilience of the world's financial systems, expanded the perimeter of regulation, closed regulatory gaps, and transformed the global financial landscape. The United States and other G-20 members collectively have undertaken major financial sector reforms and strengthened the robustness of financial markets and institutions, while fostering a dynamic and innovative marketplace.

U.S. leadership has played a transformational role throughout by engaging others in a "race to the top" to raise the quality of regulation and level the playing field across major and emerging financial centers. U.S. financial reform, now in its second year of implementation since President Obama signed the historic Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in July 2010, is fully consistent with – and in a number of areas surpasses – our G-20 commitments. The G-20's collective efforts will raise the bar on standards for financial stability, while avoiding fragmentation of markets and protectionism.

Many of the initiatives proposed in Pittsburgh in September 2009 have come to fruition at the Cannes Summit.


President Obama's leadership in Cannes also powered the launch of two new initiatives to further improve the G-20's ability to strengthen the safety and soundness of our financial systems, and to identify potential risks to financial system stability.


The G-20 has made extensive progress in transforming the financial regulatory landscape globally. Leaders now are focusing on implementation, at a pace that reduces risks to the economic recovery and ensures a level playing field around the world. U.S. leadership has been at the forefront of these efforts. The United States will continue to emphasize the critical role of the G-20 in developing a strong, collective response to overcome near-term vulnerabilities, and put in place the building blocks for more balanced and durable growth going forward.