A 21st Century Learning System
By Newt Gingrich
1. Learning is vital to maintain American civilization. As the Founding Fathers wrote in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: "
."
Note that they saw education as vastly more than mere knowledge, and note the order they listed it in. We must restore values, discipline and American history to the classroom.
2. America is a learned civilization and every American, including immigrants, should learn American history and the principles of American self-government, productivity and prosperity. As Thomas Jefferson wrote in 1820: "
." Every student must learn to read and much of what they read should reinforce American civilization.
3. The education system that was developed between 1840 and 1960 is now broken. This was stated vividly28 years ago in the Reagan Administration report "A Nation at Risk" (April 1983):
4. The collapse of our education system directly threatens our national security.
In 2001, the Hart-Rudman Commission report, "Road Map for National Security: Imperative for Change," listed our failing education system as the second greatest threat after "ensuring the security of the American homeland." It stated:
5. The current ideologically driven, credentialed, bureaucratic, unionized, tenured system cannot be fixed. A quarter century of effort has left children less educated, America less competitive, and our citizens less informed.
6. We must envision a 21st century system of lifetime learning more flexible, more productive, more individualized and more capable than any bureaucracy could achieve.
7. Learning should be rewarded.
8. Mediocrity should not be tolerated.
9. Parents and learners should choose the systems that work best for them.A locally-funded Pell Grant for K-through-12 would be the ideal model, with a KIPP schools-style parent-student-teacher contract.Charter schools with parental choice are a vital interim step. No child should be trapped in a bad school.
10. Parents who home school their children should receive a tax credit or be allowed to keep the Pell Grant.
11. Individualized, 24/7 learning should be universally available online, with mentors and through other learning systems.The Florida Virtual School (with over 120,000 students) for K-12, and the University of Phoenix and Kaplan are forerunners of this system.
12. Students who graduate early should get the cost of the years they skip as an automatic scholarship, following the model of Governor Daniels's program in Indiana.
13. Unemployment compensation should have a business-training component so we are improving human capital with every payment.
14. Every state should have a work-study college that enables students to graduate debt free, following the model of the College of the Ozarks in Missouri.
15. Higher education should become dramatically more productive and less expensive.
16. The federal and state departments of education should be dramatically shrunk in size and authority, and the money saved used to pay teachers more within a merit system.
17. Tenure should be abolished. No bad teacher should be permitted to ruin a child's future.