"Nearly four years ago in Iowa, President Obama promised jobs and a robust economy to help improve the fortunes of college graduates. Today, when he returns to Iowa, President Obama will have to run on his record of failed economic policies that have produced one of the worst job markets for college graduates in decades. Young Americans don't need more campaign slogans and promises—they need a president who will build an economy that helps gets them back to work." -Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 QUESTION: "I have a son and a daughter in college. They're a junior and senior. And they're concerned about job opportunities. What strategy and plan do you have in place for college graduates for jobs and employment?"  OBAMA: "Well, the first thing is to make sure that the economy is growing. And I've talked about some of the things we have to do to make the economy grow." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Davenport, IA, 8/25/08)
 OBAMA: "But one of the things that we should be doing is thinking about how do we redesign our high schools, so that young people are starting to get a taste of the work world and what's out there, and are starting to connect the skills they learn in the classroom with employment opportunities." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Davenport, IA, 8/25/08)
 OBAMA: "So, job growth generally is something we have to deal with. But the second thing is matching the education system so it works with employers more effectively, and we figure out what the jobs in the future are going to be." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Davenport, IA, 8/25/08)
 OBAMA: "Clean energy. That is going to be a job-generator in the future, if we're smart about it. I was in Seattle at a company that had started off as a mom-and- pop plumbing outfit. And they got a few jobs doing HVAC work and making buildings a little more efficient, and they decided, you know what? This could generate some money. ... Those are jobs of the future." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Davenport, IA, 8/25/08)
 OBAMA: "And I've talked about some of the things we have to do to make the economy grow. We've got to stabilize the housing market. And not only do we have to deal with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, but we also have to build off legislation that we just passed, and expand it to help people stabilize their mortgages." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Davenport, IA, 8/25/08)