"Following his chief strategist's lead, President Obama made a convincing case for electing Mitt Romney when he stated the economy is 'not as robust as we'd like.' After three years of failed economic policies and broken promises, it's clear that President Obama isn't prepared to help build an economy that helps get Americans back to work." -Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "You still have an unemployment rate that's way too high, you have folks whose homes are underwater because the housing bubble burst, people are still feeling the pinch from high gas prices. The fact of the matter is that times are still tough for too many people, and the recovery is still not as robust as we'd like, and that's what will make it a close election." (Jann S. Wenner, "Ready For The Fight: Rolling Stone Interview With Barack Obama," 
, 4/25/12)
 AXELROD: "The choice in this election is between an economy that produces a growing middle class and that gives people a chance to get ahead and their kids a chance to get ahead, and an economy that continues down the road we are on, where a fewer and fewer number of people do very well, and everybody else is running faster and faster just to keep pace." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 4/15/12)
 The jobless rate has been above 8% since February 2009, a thirty-eight month span unequaled in recorded history. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 4/17/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 4/17/12)
 (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 
, Accessed 4/25/12)
 "Meanwhile, 2.5 million homes have been lost to foreclosure since 2009, an additional 4 million are in the foreclosure process or seriously delinquent, and home prices are still falling in much of the U.S., shrinking household wealth for millions of Americans." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," 
, 12/12/11)
 "'Every program has fallen far short of goals. I can't think of one that's been largely successful,' says John Dodds, director of the Philadelphia Unemployment Project, a non-profit that's been involved in foreclosure prevention for decades." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," 
, 12/12/11)