"President Obama may be in Ohio today to talk about the economy, but Ohioans won't be fooled by more rhetoric that doesn't match the President's record. After more than three years of broken promises and disastrous economic policies, the only thing President Obama has delivered for Ohio is a record of fewer jobs, skyrocketing gas prices, and a housing market that remains among the worst in the nation." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "More than two years after he brought his ‘White House to Main Street Tour' to Lorain County Community College, President Barack Obama will return Wednesday to again discuss the economy. The White House confirmed this morning that Obama will appear at the Elyria campus at about 2:30 p.m." (Henry J. Gomez, "President Barack Obama To Discuss Economy Wednesday At Lorain County Community College," 
, 4/16/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 4/17/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 4/17/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 4/17/12)
 (AAA Website, 
, Accessed 4/12/12)
 "But beyond that, the rule means that coal-fired power plants as they exist now will not be built in the future. The standard will generally require that new power plants emit CO2 at a rate no greater than that of a natural-gas-fired power plant. Such plants emit about 60 percent less greenhouse gases than coal plants." (Erica Martinson, "EPA Hits Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Power Plants," 
, 3/26/12)
 "More than 32 mostly coal-fired power plants in a dozen states will be forced to shut down and an additional 36 might have to close because of new federal air pollution regulations, according to an Associated Press survey. Together, those plants -- some of the oldest and dirtiest in the country -- produce enough electricity for more than 22 million households, the AP survey found. But their demise probably won't cause homes to go dark." (Dina Cappiello, "AP Impact: EPA Rules Threaten Older Power Plants," 
, 12/19/11)
 "The Akron-based utility which owns Toledo Edison said it was shutting the facility because of air emission standards being imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. In all, FirstEnergy said it would also shut plants in Eastlake, Ashabula, and Cleveland in Ohio, as well as in Adrian, Pa., and Williamsport, Md. The plants collectively produce 2,689 megawatts of electricity and employ 529 workers." ("FirstEnergy To Shutter Bay Shore Coal-Fired Plant," 
, 1/26/12)
 "Large Ohio coal plants will go dark within a few years. Duke Energy announced that the Walter C. Beckjord Generating Station in Clermont County east of Cincinnati will cease operating coal-fired units in 2015. ... Other Ohio utilities have announced coal-burning power plants headed for closure, including American Electric Power in Columbus. AEP said it would close two West Virginia plants and one Ohio plant, Picway. Two other Ohio plants, Conesville and Muskingum River, would close generating units." (Steve Bennish, "EPA Rules To Force Old Coal Plants To Adapt, Close," 
, 1/6/12)
 "These plant closures will be a punch in the gut for communities already battling sour unemployment numbers. Three of the plants are in Cleveland, Eastlake and Ashtabula, which stand to lose millions in property taxes as well as many jobs." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," 
, 1/29/12)
 "But there's trouble looming on another front: the housing market's still struggling, especially in states key to his reelection prospects. Four of the biggest battlegrounds — Michigan, Florida, California and Nevada — are among the top 10 states with the highest foreclosure rates. Ohio, central to every presidential campaign, is ranked at number 11." (Joseph Williams, "Foreclosures May Dog Obama," 
, 2/9/12)
 "Nearly a quarter of Ohio homeowners were drowning in mortgage debt at the end of last year, based on figures from housing data tracker, CoreLogic. That was slightly higher than the U.S. rate of about 23 percent of all residential properties. Nationally, that means about 11 million homeowners are under water. Ohio has the nation's ninth highest percentage of mortgages under water." (Randy Tucker, "Mortgages Exceeding Home Values, Restraining Growth," 
, 3/9/12)
 "The Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor area was one of eight metropolitan markets, including Atlanta, Chicago, New York and Seattle, that hit their lowest point since the housing bubble burst. Local prices are at March 1999 levels, according to S&P/Case-Shiller data that is not adjusted for seasonal housing patterns." (Michelle Jarboe McFee, "Cleveland House Prices Hit A New Low, As S&P/Case-Shiller Indices Show Rocky Start To 2012," 
, 3/27/12)