"It's bad enough that President Obama's GSA decided to blow nearly a million dollars in resorts across the country, but now a prominent official won't even answer questions from Congress on the wasteful spending. Americans deserve a government willing to answer hard questions and make tough decisions when it comes to spending taxpayers' hard-earned dollars." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The General Services Administration official tasked with organizing a now-infamous $822,000 Las Vegas conference plans to invoke his Fifth Amendment rights ahead of a scheduled Monday grilling on the Hill. On Thursday, House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) served a subpoena to require Jeff Neely to appear before the committee, according to Democratic committee documents obtained by POLITICO. Neely's attorney on Friday informed the committee Neely will exercise his right against self-incrimination and requested not to attend the hearing." (Burgess Everett, "GSA Official To Take The Fifth," 
, 4/13/12)
 "As the executive largely responsible for an October, 2010 conference at a Las Vegas resort, Neely was subpoenaed to testify Monday before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The panel is one of four congressional committees investigating GSA spending — inquiries that began earlier this month when the agency's inspector general reported an $823,000 spending spree at the Las Vegas event." (Larry Margasak, "Jeffrey Neely, GSA Official, To Remain Silent At Congressional Hearing," 
, 4/13/12)
 (Larry Margasak, "Jeffrey Neely, GSA Official, To Remain Silent At Congressional Hearing," 
, 4/13/12)
 "Susan Brita, the GSA's deputy administrator and an Obama political appointee, emailed other agency officials in July 2011 saying the agency's inspector general found ‘no substantive agenda' at the conference. She also said that expenses for a clown suit, bicycles for a training exercise, tuxedos and a mind-reader ‘didn't lend themselves to the claim of a substantive conference.' Brita suggested the agency should deal with the prospect of the news media latching onto the conference's nearly $1 million cost." ("Key Figure In General Services Administration Scandal Issued Subpoena, Won't Testify On Hill," 
, 4/14/12)
 "‘It takes a lot of work to spend $3,000 a person and at a time when unemployment was nearly 10 percent, Americans were suffering and GSA was enjoying the good times and doing so with high-ranking political employees,' Issa said in a statement. He blamed the White House, which learned of Miller's investigation 11 months ago, for waiting until his report was public to remove the agency's top leaders." (Lisa Rein, "Video Plays Up GSA Revelry In Vegas," 
, 4/5/12)
 "Four congressional hearings on the scandal are scheduled for next week. One will be held by Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), who said Tuesday that several conference organizers received bonuses ranging from $500 to $1,500 for their contributions to the event. She is seeking a list of those officials from the GSA." (Lisa Rein, "Acting GSA Chief Calls Las Vegas Spree ‘Completely Unacceptable'," 
, 4/10/12)
 "Jeff Neely, the event's lead organizer and head of the San Francisco-based Pacific Rim office, received a bonus of about $9,000 for his performance in 2011, McCaskill said. The committee reviewing bonuses for Senior Executive Service leaders, including Neely, recommended that he not receive one. But senior agency leaders did not heed that advice, McCaskill said. Neely is on administrative leave." (Lisa Rein, "Acting GSA Chief Calls Las Vegas Spree ‘Completely Unacceptable'," 
, 4/10/12)
 "The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee said Wednesday that five employees associated with the recently scandal-plagued Government Services Administration went to Hawaii for up to a week in 2011 to attend an hour-long ribbon cutting on space leased by the federal government for the FBI." (Chad Pergram, "GSA Employees Travel To Hawaii Five-Days For A One-Hour Ribbon Cutting," 
, 4/11/12)
 "About 120 interns and 20 GSA executives attended a five-day conference for the interns in May 2010 at a Palm Springs, Calif., resort, according to information provided by the GSA inspector general to a House committee." ("General Services Administration Treats Its Interns To Conference At California Resort," 
, 4/12/12)