"President Obama may like to claim his so-called ‘Buffett Rule' is just a matter of ‘math.' But the President may want to check his math again, since his proposal has been panned by the media and economic experts. This latest tax hike scheme is just another example of a president willing to say and do anything to distract from his failed record of chronic unemployment and trillions of dollars in new debt and wasteful spending." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "As both I and Warren Buffett have pointed out many times now, he's paying a lower tax rate than his secretary. That is not fair. It is not right. And the choice is really very simple. ... That is not class warfare, that is not class envy, that is math." (President Barack Obama, 
, Washington, D.C., 4/3/12)
 OBAMA: "What I've said is this is a very simple principle that everybody should understand: Warren Buffett's secretary shouldn't pay a lower [sic] tax rate than Warren Buffett. ... And that basic principle of fairness, if applied to our tax code, could raise enough money that not only do we pay for our jobs bill, but we also stabilize our debt and deficits for the next decade. And as I said when I made the announcement, this is not politics; this is math." (President Barack Obama, 
 in San Diego, CA, 9/26/11)
 "That figure would be a drop in the bucket of the more than $7 trillion in federal budget deficits projected during that period. It is minuscule compared with the many hundreds of billions of dollars it would cost to repeal the alternative minimum tax, which Obama's budget last month said he would replace with the Buffett-rule tax." ("Report: 'Buffett Rule' Tax On Rich Would Do Little Against Deficits," 
, 3/21/12)
 "Joint Tax dutifully studied the bill and has delivered the official score: This year, the Buffett rule would increase federal revenues by all of $1.1 billion. That's less than one-tenth of one percent of the $1.2 trillion budget deficit Mr. Obama is scheduled to run this year. Through 2022 Joint Tax expects less than $47 billion in total new revenues from the Buffett rule while the government will be adding trillions of dollars to the national debt." (Editorial, "The Bottom 0.1%," 
, 3/21/12)
 "The proposed Buffett rule is more a political statement than a deficit-reduction tool, given how little money it may raise. In that sense, it's like Obama's oft-repeated call to eliminate tax breaks for corporate jets." (Editorial, "The ‘Buffett Rule,' And More," 
, 9/20/11)
 RIVLIN: "I'm very fond of Warren Buffett. I think his basic observation that he pays too little taxes is right. But the way to fix the tax code is to fix the tax code, not to add another complication at the margin." (CNN's "
," 9/18/11)
 "The 2013 budget the president submitted today does not come close to meeting this promise of being reduced to $650 billion for fiscal year 2013. The president noted in that 2009 speech the Obama administration inherited a $1.3 trillion deficit. The deficit was similarly $1.3 trillion in 2011, is projected to be $1.15 trillion in 2012, and the president's budget claims it will be $901 billion in 2013." (Jack Tapper, "Obama's Broken Deficit Promise," 
, 2/13/12)
 "President Barack Obama's healthcare law could sharply exceed its cost-savings targets and add up to $530 billion to the federal budget deficit, a leading authority on U.S. government benefit programs said on Tuesday. A study by Charles Blahous, a George Mason University research fellow and the Republican trustee for the Medicare and Social Security entitlement programs for the elderly, challenges the administration's contention that the 2010 law would better keep healthcare costs in line. ... Obama and the Democrats believe the law will control skyrocketing costs and curtail government ‘red ink.'" (John Crawley, "Obama Healthcare Law Could Sharply Worsen U.S. Deficits: Study," 
, 4/10/12)
 (U.S. Department Of Treasury Website, 
, Accessed 4/9/12)