"President Obama may be back in Florida to talk about trade, but Floridians — like all Americans — still have one simple question: Where are the jobs? Given Florida's 9.4% unemployment rate, it's a question the President would rather not answer. Americans need a president who understands the importance of free trade and economic growth — not more excuses and broken promises from President Obama." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "President Barack Obama will return to Florida on Friday for the second time in four days, this time at the Port of Tampa to announce initiatives to promote trade with Latin America on his way to the Summit of the Americas in Colombia." (Bill Varian, "Obama To Announce Trade Initiatives At Port Of Tampa Visit," 
, 4/11/12)
 (Bill Varian, "Obama To Announce Trade Initiatives At Port Of Tampa Visit," 
, 4/11/12)
 (AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, 
, Accessed 4/12/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, 
, Accessed 4/9/12)
 "Likewise, Florida had the seventh-highest foreclosure rate in 2011, with 2.06 percent, according to RealtyTrac." (Danielle Kurtzleben, "Obama Faces Challenge In A Battered Florida," 
, 1/24/12)
 "It's true that Obama has been harshly critical of NAFTA on the campaign trail, citing shortfalls in its protections for workers and the environment. He has used words like ‘devastating' and ‘a big mistake' to describe the agreement." (Alexander Lane, "Obama's Been Critical Of NAFTA," 
, 10/15/08)
 "President Obama says he wants to get the U.S. economy growing, so here's a tip that may help: In order for Congress to ratify free-trade agreements, the White House must first send the signed deals to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. We don't want to pick on poor Mr. Earnest, who is no doubt doing his best, but it's worth noting that all three of these trade deals were signed three or more years ago, before Mr. Obama became President. If he wants them passed, stop the kvetching and send them to Congress." (Editorial, "The Biggest Trade Barrier," 
, 8/20/11)
 (U.S. Census Bureau Website, 
, Accessed 4/12/12)
 "Romney, the front-runner in the Republican race to challenge President Barack Obama for the White House in November, has promised if elected he would quickly label China a currency manipulator, something the Obama administration has six times declined to do." (Doug Palmer, "Romney Would Squeeze China On Currency Manipulation-Adviser," 
, 3/27/12)