"If Representative Wasserman Schultz's recent comments are any indication of what we can expect from President Obama today in Florida, he won't be rushing to accept responsibility for an economy Democrats used to be eager to ‘own.' After three years of chronic unemployment and economic hardship, Floridians and all Americans can't afford another four years under President Obama." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "Democrats are ready to take responsibility for the state of the economy and they deserve credit for putting it on the right track, the party's chairwoman, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, said on Wednesday. ‘We own the economy. We own the beginning of the turnaround and we want to make sure that we continue that pace of recovery, not go back to the policies of the past under the Bush administration that put us in the ditch in the first place,' Wasserman Schultz told Mike Allen at POLITICO's ‘Playbook Breakfast.'" (Molly Ball, "Debbie Wasserman Schultz: ‘We Own The Economy,'" 
, 6/15/11)
 "Wasserman Schultz made similar comments earlier this week: ‘I'm going to take ownership right now, because we've begun to turn the economy around.'" (Editorial, "We Own The Economy," 
, 6/18/11)
 CROWLEY: "‘Over three years ago, President Obama projected that the unemployment rate would be below 6 percent by now thanks to his stimulus. But the stimulus failed and unemployment has been far above that level ever since.' Is that legitimate criticism because in fact that is what the president's economic folks projected with the stimulus that was passed?" WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: "Again, that's another example of where the Republicans just refuse to acknowledge that we've made progress. We have made significant progress, even in manufacturing..." CROWLEY: "But ... it was the president's benchmark. And is holding him to that fair?" ... CROWLEY: "But it failed to do what was promised. Isn't that..." WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: "No. No, no, no, I..." CROWLEY: "I'm just trying to see if you think that is a legitimate criticism?" WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: "No, I don't think it's a legitimate criticism." (CNN's "
," 4/8/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics Website, 
, Accessed 4/9/12)
 "Mortgage servicing provider Lender Processing Services reported in early March that U.S. foreclosure starts jumped 28 percent in January. More conclusive national data is not yet available. But watchdog group, 4closurefraud.org which helped uncover the ‘robo-signing' scandal, says it has turned up evidence of a large rise in new foreclosures between March 1 and 24 by three big banks in Palm Beach County in Florida, one of the states hit hardest by the housing crash." (Nick Carey, "Americans Brace For Next Foreclosure Wave," 
, 4/4/12)
 (AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report, 
, Accessed 4/9/12)