"Last night, President Obama couldn't find a single House Democrat to support his re-election blueprint of trillions in new deficits and higher taxes. If the President's own allies in Congress won't support his election-year platform, why should the American people?" —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The Republican-run House has overwhelmingly rejected President Barack Obama's $3.6 trillion budget for next year after a vote forced by GOP lawmakers to embarrass Democrats. ... The vote was 414-0. The vote came as the House debated a GOP budget that contains far more deficit reduction than Obama has proposed." ("Republican-Run House Easily Rejects Obama Budget As Chamber Moves Toward Approving GOP Plan," 
, 3/28/12)
 (Andrew Taylor, "GOP-Run House Easily Rejects Bipartisan Budget," 
, 3/28/12)
 "President Obama will lay out a budget blueprint on Monday that amounts to an election-year bet that a plan for higher taxes on the rich and more spending on popular programs like infrastructure and manufacturing will trump concerns over the deficit.  ... But the latest budget document can be seen as more a platform for the president's re-election campaign than a legislative proposal for budget debates that will begin next week." (Jonathan Weisman, "Obama Budget Bets Other Concerns Will Trump The Deficit," 
, 2/10/12)
 "A new analysis of President Barack Obama's budget for next year says the deficit scenario for next year isn't as rosy as the White House figured last month. Friday's Congressional Budget Office report said Obama's budget would produce a $977 billion deficit next year — $75 billion more than predicted by the White House." ("CBO: Obama Budget Produces 2013 Deficit Of $977B," 
, 3/16/12)
 ("CBO: Obama Budget Produces 2013 Deficit Of $977B," 
, 3/16/12)
 "President Barack Obama called for $1.4 trillion in fresh revenue from Americans at the top of the income scale, proposing higher taxes on wages and investments and limiting breaks for retirement savings and health insurance." (Richard Rubin and Steven Sloan, "Obama Aims $1.4 Trillion Tax Increase At Highest Earners," 
, 2/14/12)
 "The Senate voted unanimously on Wednesday to reject a $3.7 trillion budget plan that President Obama sent to Capitol Hill in February. Ninety-seven senators voted against a motion to take it up." (Alexander Bolton, "President's Budget Sinks, 97-0," 
, 5/25/11)
 "Indeed, the vote on the president's plan turned into a rout, with neither Republicans nor Democrats voting in favor of taking it up." (David Rogers, "Senate Votes Down Paul Ryan Budget Plan, 57-40," 
, 5/25/11)