"In a bizarre development, Rick Santorum has been traveling across Wisconsin to repeatedly attack his own record of putting aside principle to 'take one for the team.' It is clear that Senator Santorum has no path to the nomination, but that is still not an excuse to run a campaign against himself. Voters in Wisconsin and across America can't help but be confused by this absurd and hypocritical approach." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 SANTORUM: "I know all of you have looked at politicians in the past and say a lot of politicians, you know, they'll say one thing and they get to Washington and they start compromising. They start selling out the values they say were important to them. And it disgusts you. It discourages you. It makes you lose faith in the political process because people don't have the courage of their convictions. Don't have the courage to step up, when everybody's saying hey, compromise, we got to win, we got to pass this bill, we got to get this done. And they betray you and they do things that are against their values and their principles and your values and your principles." (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Onlaska, WI, 3/28/12)
 SANTORUM: "A lot of Tea Partiers, a lot of conservatives talk tough. They go out and castigate members of Congress and elected officials for compromising on their principles, for not doing what they say they were going to do. For trying just to get a deal done, trying to pass a piece of legislation and therefore sacrifice and walk away from their principles in order to win." (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Janesville, WI, 3/27/12)
 SANTORUM: "How many times have you said you're sick and tired of politicians going to Washington, D.C. and not standing up for their principles? How many times have you said that in the last umpteen years?" (Rick Santorum, Remarks in Milwaukee, WI, 3/24/12)
 SANTORUM: "I supported No Child Left Behind. ... I have to admit, I voted for that. It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)
 (Paul Kane, "For Santorum, 'Team' Is First," 
, 5/11/04)