"President Obama may be excited for the 'flexibility' he'd like to enjoy in a second term. But with American families already struggling to pay record-high energy bills, Americans truly can't afford four more years of the same." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "We have to have an even more robust energy policy if we're going to create the kind of jobs in this new energy sector that are needed and we're going to deal with climate change in a serious way." (President Barack Obama, 
 in San Francisco, CA, 2/17/12)
 
 OBAMA: "When I was asked earlier about the issue of coal, you know, under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket. Even regardless of what I say about whether coal is good or bad. Because I'm capping greenhouse gases, coal power plants, you know, natural gas, you name it, whatever the plants were, whatever the industry was, uh, they would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that money on to consumers." (Sen. Barack Obama, 
 With The 
's Editorial Board, 1/17/08)
 "House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has put cap-and-trade legislation on a forced march through the House, and the bill may get a full vote as early as Friday. It looks as if the Democrats will have to destroy the discipline of economics to get it done. ... Americans should know that those Members who vote for this climate bill are voting for what is likely to be the biggest tax in American history. Even Democrats can't repeal that reality." (Editorial, "The Cap And Tax Fiction," 
, 6/26/09)
 "The Obama administration is moving ahead with its greenhouse gas rule for new power plants, a regulation that promises to shift the future of U.S. power generation. EPA will announce the rule Tuesday, a senior administration official confirmed to POLITICO. ... Critics argue that the rule is evidence that the Obama administration's 'all of the above' energy policy does not include coal, and charge that the rule will only drive up the cost of electricity." (Erica Martinson, "EPA Hits Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Power Plants," 
, 3/26/12)
 "The price of an average gallon of regular gas surpassed the $3.90 mark Wednesday, moving to within a dime of the $4 threshold. The average price rose 1.3 cents to $3.911 in the latest daily survey conducted for the motorist group AAA. The price has risen for 19 consecutive days. The current price compares to just below $3.70 a month ago, and just below $3.59 a year ago." ("Gas Tops $3.90 A Gallon," 
, 3/28/12)
 (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 
, Accessed 3/28/12)
 "U.S. gas prices have jumped 8.8 percent since the start of this year, according to the Energy Information Agency, topping an average of $3.65 a gallon in the week ended February 22. This was a record for this time of the year, when prices are usually on the low side because of slow seasonal demand." (Nivedita Bhattacharjee, "Analysis: Gas Prices Siphon Sales From Restaurants," 
, 2/29/12)