"Conservative leaders across the nation know there is a lot at stake in this election. Mitt Romney is running for president in order to defeat Barack Obama and restore America's promise. He knows the choice we will make in November is about more than just one person — it is about the future of our country." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "In Mitt Romney, we have a candidate, an alternative, that in addition to being successful as a governor, running an important state in this country, has also been successful in the private sector and offers a very clear alternative to the direction this president is going to take our country." (Fox News' "Hannity," 3/28/12)
 "But it is critically important to make a choice and support the person who is best equipped to solve the urgent problems before us. In my view, that person is Mitt Romney. ... I'm proud to support Romney because he is a leader." (Sen. Tom Coburn, Op-Ed, "Mitt Romney Best Equipped To Solve Problems Facing Our Nation," 
, 3/4/12)
 (Tom Cohen, "Romney Gets Positive Review From DeMint, Hits Back At Santorum," 
, 3/23/12)
 "In a statement, Lee said, 'If Republicans want to repeal President Obama's unconstitutional health care plan, restore limited government and individual liberty, they must unite behind Mitt Romney. He is the one candidate who will be able to win in November and implement policies that conservatives like me have been fighting for in the Senate.'" (Alex Pappas, "Romney Wins Support Of Tea Party Favorite Sen. Mike Lee," 
, 3/26/12)
 (Alex Roarty, "Toomey: Republicans Can Trust Romney To Govern As A Conservative," 
, 3/23/12)
 "Thune's accompanying statement stressed Romney's ability to deal with economic troubles. 'Mitt Romney has shown throughout his life in the private sector, as leader of the Olympics, as governor, and in this campaign that he will not back down from difficult challenges. His plans to revitalize the private sector and restore our country's fiscal health are drawn from his 25 year career as a conservative businessman.'" (Tony Leys, "South Dakota's Thune To Endorse Mitt Romney In Des Moines Today," 
, 11/23/11)
 (NBC's "Meet The Press," 3/4/12)
 (Catalina Camia, "No. 3 House GOP Leader Endorses Mitt Romney," 
, 3/26/12)
 (CBS's "This Morning," 2/28/12)
 (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360," 1/31/12)
 (Mitt Romney For President, 
, 2/29/12)
 "Although former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney has never served in Congress, we have similarly reviewed his gubernatorial record and campaign positions — both of which earn him bona fides as a true conservative." (Al Cardenas, "Time For Conservatives To Unite Behind Governor Mitt Romney," 
, 3/26/12)
 (Mitt Romney For President, 
, 2/9/12)
 BUCHANAN: "Mitt Romney was the clear winner of tonight's debate because, once again, he proved that he is a true conservative who will turn this country around. Conservatives need a candidate who not only shares our views, but is committed to putting them into action. Mitt Romney is the strong leader we need to reverse Obamacare, create jobs, and secure our borders. Americans cannot afford four more years of President Obama and his failed policies." (Mitt Romney For President, 
, 1/7/12)
 "'Mitt Romney is a true conservative,' Bopp wrote in an 'open letter' explaining the endorsement. 'One does not have to guess what Mitt Romney would do in office. He served for four years as Governor of Massachusetts and has a record that conservatives should be proud of.'" (Patricia Zengerle, "Romney Endorsed By Citizens United Adviser Bopp," 
, 2/7/12)