"President Obama is the first president in history to openly campaign for re-election on a platform of higher taxes. He has already raised taxes on millions of Americans, but he won't stop there. He wants to raise taxes on millions more by taxing small businesses and job creators. We appreciate the Obama campaign reinforcing Mitt Romney's platform of lowering tax rates across the board in order to jumpstart this bad Obama economy." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Campaign Communications Director
 "In advance of the Senate vote on the Buffett Rule, Senator Dick Durbin, Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, and Campaign Manager Jim Messina will hold a conference call today highlighting the President's call for tax fairness and Governor Romney's opposition to it." (Mike Allen, 
's "
," 4/9/12)
 "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 "A White House official argued Sunday that the president had another trump card to play: the scheduled expiration of the George W. Bush tax cuts at the end of 2012. Obama would block extension of the reductions, either as a final act in office after losing the November 2012 election or after winning a second term." (Peter Wallsten and David Nakamura, "Did Obama Capitulate — Or Is This A Cagey Move?" 
, 7/31/11)
 "The plan calls for a tax reform package that would increase revenue by $1.5 trillion over the next decade. Obama did not offer a detailed plan for tax reform. Instead, he proposed a series of changes to the current tax system and several principles for what comprehensive tax reform would look like." ("Obama Budget Sets Stage For Battle Over Tax Hikes," 
, 2/13/12)
 "January 2013 is also the same month that Mr. Obama wants the Bush-era tax rates to expire on Americans earning more than $200,000. That would raise the highest individual income tax rate to about 42%, including deduction phaseouts, from 35% today. Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation found in 2009 that $437 billion of business income would be taxed at higher tax rates under the Obama plan. And since some 4.5 million small-business owners file their annual tax returns as subchapter S firms under the individual tax code, this tax increase would often apply to the same people who Mr. Obama is targeting with his new tax credits." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," 
, 7/11/11)
 (CBO Director Douglas W. Elmendorf, 
, U.S. House Of Representatives, 3/30/11)