 "GSA Administrator Martha Johnson admitted in a letter of resignation that her agency had made a ‘significant misstep' and that ‘taxpayer dollars were squandered.' A GSA Inspector General's report on the 2010 GSA ‘Western Regions' training conference in Las Vegas shows the government spent more than $822,000 for the 300 attendees..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," 
, 4/2/12)
 "‘It takes a lot of work to spend $3,000 a person and at a time when unemployment was nearly 10 percent, Americans were suffering and GSA was enjoying the good times and doing so with high-ranking political employees,' Issa said in a statement. He blamed the White House, which learned of Miller's investigation 11 months ago, for waiting until his report was public to remove the agency's top leaders." (Lisa Rein, "Video Plays Up GSA Revelry In Vegas," 
, 4/5/12)
 "A report due to be released today by a Republican senator contends the Obama administration's stimulus program is fraught with waste and incompetence — evidenced by a turtle crossing in northern Florida that will cost more than $3 million and a snafu in which thousands of Social Security checks went out to people who had died." (Peter Nicholas, "Stimulus Program Fraught With Waste, Report Says," 
, 6/16/09)
 "Solar panel maker Solyndra received a $528 million Energy Department loan in 2009 — and went bankrupt last year. The government's risky investment strategy didn't stop there, as a CBS News investigation has uncovered a pattern of cases of the government pouring your tax dollars into clean energy." (Sharyl Attkisson, "Tax Dollars Backing Some "Risky" Energy Projects," 
, 1/13/12)
 "President Obama doubled down on tying Mitt Romney to Paul Ryan's House Republican budget at a fundraiser Thursday. ‘The budget was marvelous, he said,' Obama said about Romney. ‘When you go through this budget, the vision is an American where everyone is fending for themselves, a few are doing well at the top and most people are struggling to get by.'" (Byron Tau, "Obama Repeats 'Marvelous' Attack On Romney," 
, 4/5/12)