"President Obama had a revealing and unguarded moment when he was caught on tape telling Russia's president, 'This is my last election. After my election, I have more flexibility.' President Obama signaled that he's going to cave to Russia on missile defense, but the American people have a right to know where else he plans to be 'flexible' in a second term.  Higher taxes, more spending and increased debt are all on the table as long as Barack Obama is in the White House, despite what he says publicly. President Obama needs to level with the American public about his real agenda." —Mitt Romney
 "President Barack Obama offered a private request Monday to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev for some 'space' on missile defense ahead of November's elections. ... 'This is my last election,' Obama said in audio that could be heard on the TV pool's recording and that POLITICO listened to. 'After my election I have more flexibility.'" (Jennifer Epstein, "Obama Asks Russia For 'Space' Through Election," 
, 3/26/12)
 OBAMA: "That is a reasonable proposition.  So when you hear folks saying, well, the President shouldn't want massive, job-killing tax increases when the economy is this weak -- nobody is looking to raise taxes right now.  We're talking about potentially 2013 and the out-years." (President Barack Obama, 
, 7/11/11)
 "A White House official argued Sunday that the president had another trump card to play: the scheduled expiration of the George W. Bush tax cuts at the end of 2012. Obama would block extension of the reductions, either as a final act in office after losing the November 2012 election or after winning a second term." (Peter Wallsten and David Nakamura, "Did Obama Capitulate — Or Is This A Cagey Move?," 
, 7/31/11)
 "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 OBAMA: "We have to have an even more robust energy policy if we're going to create the kind of jobs in this new energy sector that are needed and we're going to deal with climate change in a serious way." (President Barack Obama, 
 in San Francisco, CA, 2/17/12)
 "House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has put cap-and-trade legislation on a forced march through the House, and the bill may get a full vote as early as Friday. It looks as if the Democrats will have to destroy the discipline of economics to get it done. ... Americans should know that those Members who vote for this climate bill are voting for what is likely to be the biggest tax in American history. Even Democrats can't repeal that reality." (Editorial, "The Cap And Tax Fiction," 
, 6/26/09)
 "Pending rules in the White House pipeline would position a re-elected President Barack Obama to outpace his predecessor with second-term rulemaking, according to a review of regulatory filings. Obama has delayed until after the election decisions on regulating ozone levels and rearview cameras for cars. Rules still need to be written to carry out much of Obama's signature first-term domestic policy initiatives, the health-care overhaul and the Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry." (Andrew Zajac, "Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," 
, 3/15/12)
"President Barack Obama has told the Palestinians to sit tight during a U.S. election year, while holding out the promise of a serious push for Palestinian statehood if he wins a second term, the Palestinian foreign minister said Friday." (Karin Laub, "In US Election Year, Palestinians Sidelined," 
, 3/9/12)
 "The Palestinians knew what they were in for as the U.S. headed into the campaign, Riad Malki, the Palestinian foreign minister, said in an interview. ... Asked whether Abbas holds out hope that Obama — if re-elected and freed from some of his domestic political shackles — will push hard for serious negotiations on Palestinian statehood, Malki said: 'They (the Americans) told us so.' He said the Obama administration asked Abbas to be patient until then." (Karin Laub, "In US Election Year, Palestinians Sidelined," 
, 3/9/12)