"Fiscal conservatives are rightly appalled at Rick Santorum's record on spending issues. All too often, he was content to play the same old Washington games by taking one 'for the team' instead of standing on principle. Republicans are looking for a proven leader who can take on Barack Obama and ultimately get our spending, debt, and deficits under control." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 SANTORUM: "I know what got me here. I know the principles that I stand for ... but it's important to keep that perspective as a freshman member, sophomore member, and beyond, as to what you ran on, what the people were telling you when they voted for you and to bring that down here and not to just fold up and go home." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)
 SANTORUM: "You can talk about all the make-work programs you want, we are going to stifle growth in this country unless we balance this budget and get it under control. And I am — I will stand up and vote against maybe popular programs back home, but you got to do it because I care about my 9 month daughter, Elizabeth to have the same opportunities and the same America I grew up with." (CSPAN's "First Year Impressions Of Congress," 1/29/92)
 "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," 
, 1/15/12)
 MODERATOR: "Rick Santorum, what's your major legislative goal?" SANTORUM: "Well, I think the focus again of what the people were telling me during the campaign is that we really need budget reform. We really need to get our situation under control here as far as the deficit. So that is something that I'm principally concerned about." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)
 "Confronted with projected deficits until fiscal 2007, senior GOP lawmakers are backing away from long-standing rhetoric about the government's duty to live within its means. 'I came to the House as a real deficit hawk, but I am no longer a deficit hawk,' said Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.). 'I'll tell you why. I had to spend the surpluses. Deficits make it easier to say no.'" (Hans Nichols, "Leadership Lines Up With Deficit Doves," The Hill, 2/5/03)
 "By late evening, only three House Democratic incumbents had lost, Dyson of Maryland, Rep. Doug Walgren of Pennsylvania and Rep. Robert Kastenmeier of Wisconsin. Walgren's opponent, attorney Rick Santorum, won by attacking his support for the congressional pay raise and his acceptance of special interest money — a theme used by many challengers." ("Democrats' Grip On Congress Increases," Los Angeles Times, 11/7/90)
 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, Accessed On 12/27/11)
 SANTORUM: "One of the first things they began to teach us, even at the bipartisan orientation, is [to] get re-elected. Work on re-election. Your first job here is to get re-elected because you're not going to be able to accomplish anything unless you're back here again. That really is the way the institution functions down here. ... And so, we really do, from the first day, start focusing on two years from now." (CSPAN's "New Members Roundtable," 12/13/90)