"Whatever the Supreme Court decides about the constitutionality of Obamacare, we already know that it is bad policy and wrong for America. Abolishing it and putting sensible changes in its place will be one of my highest priorities as president." —Mitt Romney
 "The Affordable Care Act will bring down costs, improve the quality of health care delivered to all Americans and expand coverage to 32 million Americans." (White House Website, 
, Accessed 3/15/12)
 (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 "Furthermore, the law falls short of making health care 'affordable and available to every single American,' as promised. The law provides subsidies to help some Americans buy insurance, expands Medicaid and doesn't allow insurance companies to exclude persons with preexisting conditions." (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," 
, 1/4/12)
"
 (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," 
, 1/4/12)
 "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," 
, 1/4/12)
 OBAMA: "If you like your doctor, you're going to be able to keep your doctor.  If you like your plan, keep your plan.  ... I think it's time to give you, the American people, more control over your health." (President Barack Obama, 
, Fairfax, VA, 3/19/10)
 "President Barack Obama promised over and over during the health care debate that 'if you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.' It turns out that, for a lot of people, that isn't true." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 OBAMA: "I don't believe we should give government or the insurance companies more control over health care in America." (President Barack Obama, 
, Fairfax, VA, 3/19/10)
  "The White House defended a controversial Medicare cost-cutting panel Wednesday, just as a House committee was set to pass a bill that would repeal the board. The Independent Payment Advisory Board, established by the healthcare reform law, would comprise 15 experts with the power to cut Medicare payments to doctors if spending grows too fast." (Sam Baker, "White House Defends IPAB Ahead Of Repeal Vote," 
, 2/29/12)
 "Instead, supposedly independent experts will run a battery of small experiments, figure out which ones 'work' and then impose them through Medicare's price controls on all U.S. medicine. When health spending in a given year exceeds a budget benchmark, as it always does and will, the 15 White House-appointed wise men will work their miracles." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," 
, 3/9/12)
 "Expert witnesses warned lawmakers Tuesday that a provision in President Obama's health care law could lead to rationed care or even prevent physicians from treating Medicare patients. ... Dr. Scott Gottlieb, M.D., a resident fellow at the nonpartisan American Enterprise Institute, told Rep. Peter Roskam (R., Ill.) that the ability of health care providers to treat patients would 'absolutely' be effected by the cuts likely to be imposed by IPAB." (Andrew Stiles, "Obamacare Could Lead To Rationed Care, Experts Warn," 
, 3/6/12)