"After watching gas prices more than double, President Obama has begun a cross-country trip to rewrite history on his own energy record. But no amount of excuses and election-year promises can change the fact that this President is to blame for stifling oil production and driving up prices at the pump. Americans need a president who knows how to implement pro-growth energy policies, not someone who can only make excuses for their failed record." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "Obama will travel to oil and gas production fields on federal lands outside of Maljamar, which is part of the Permian Basin, the nation's second-largest oil-producing region after Alaska. In a press release, the White House said the president's stop will 'highlight the Administration's commitment to expanding domestic oil and gas production, which has increased each year he has been in office, with domestic oil production currently at an eight year high and domestic natural gas production at an all-time high.'" (Jeri Clausing, "President Obama To Visit New Mexico Oil Fields," 
, 3/20/12)
 "The report shows that crude oil production and natural gas production on Federal lands both fell between 2010 and 2011. In fact, federal lands produced less crude oil in fiscal 2011 than they did in fiscal 2003. Natural gas production on federal land is also well below both three and eight years ago." (Joel Gehrke, "DOE Report On Energy Contradicts WH, Salazar," 
, 3/15/12)
 "But much of the new production appears to be occuring on state and private lands in oil-rich places such as North Dakota and Texas, rather than in the federally controlled Gulf. Others have noted that increases on public lands should be attributed to the leasing and permitting decisions of previous administrations, given the long lead time to develop energy projects." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," 
, 2/27/12)
 "What Obama fails to mention, and Republicans want to spotlight, is that much of that drilling is taking place due to leases finalized during the George W. Bush administration, and much of it takes place on private land, with little action by the federal government." (Coral Davenport, "Obama In Full Crisis-Control Mode On Gas Prices," 
, 3/15/12)
 "The reduction in oil production was most significant in the Gulf of Mexico, where it declined nearly 17 percent to 514 million barrels from 618 million barrels in 2010." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," 
, 2/27/12)
 (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 
, Accessed 3/20/12)
 "U.S. gas prices have jumped 8.8 percent since the start of this year, according to the Energy Information Agency, topping an average of $3.65 a gallon in the week ended February 22. This was a record for this time of the year, when prices are usually on the low side because of slow seasonal demand." (Nivedita Bhattacharjee, "Analysis: Gas Prices Siphon Sales From Restaurants," 
, 2/29/12)