"For all those who still had questions, Rick Santorum has now provided a textbook example of what an economic lightweight looks like." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Communications Director
 "On Monday morning, as Santorum kicked off a full day of campaigning in Illinois, where he trails Mitt Romney in the polls, Santorum gave critics of his messaging more ammunition. 'The issue in this race is not the economy,' he said." (Jon Ward, "Rick Santorum: 'The Issue In This Race Is Not The Economy'," 
, 3/19/12)
 (Editorial, "Where's The Rest Of Them?" 
, 2/9/12)
 "Rick Santorum is coming under fire for saying that the unemployment rate and economic growth are secondary issues to that of freedom in his campaign ... [Santorum:] 'I don't care what the unemployment rate's going to be. Doesn't matter to me. My campaign doesn't hinge on unemployment rates and growth rates. It's something more foundational that's going on.'" (Rebecca Kaplan, "Santorum: 'I Don't Care What the Unemployment Rate's Going to Be,'" 
, 3/19/12)
 "Confronted with projected deficits until fiscal 2007, senior GOP lawmakers are backing away from long-standing rhetoric about the government's duty to live within its means. 'I came to the House as a real deficit hawk, but I am no longer a deficit hawk,' said Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.). 'I'll tell you why. I had to spend the surpluses. Deficits make it easier to say no.'" (Hans Nichols, "Leadership Lines Up With Deficit Doves," 
, 2/5/03)
 (Charles Babington, "Gingrich Defends His Attacks," 
, 1/15/12)
 (David J. Lynch, "Santorum Picks Own 'Winners And Losers' Even As He Chides Obama," 
, 2/17/12)
 "A manufacturing tax credit isn't a campaign theme; it's a bullet point (and one, for the record, Mr. Obama largely agrees with). The opportunity for contrast is in a sharp economic message that directly challenges Democrats on class warfare, taxes and size of government." (Kimberly Strassel, "Is Santorum A Contender?" 
, 2/9/12)
 (Jennifer Rubin, "Not Only The Rates Matter," 
, 2/22/12)
 "A similar [to Obama's] tax favoritism affects Mr. Santorum's proposal to cut the corporate tax rate in half (to 17.5%) for most companies but make it zero for manufacturers. Mr. Santorum recently defended this form of industrial policy by saying that Wal-Mart (his example) didn't warrant a zero rate because it didn't send jobs overseas. So any company that threatens to move jobs overseas should get a lower rate than a company that keeps jobs in the U.S.? Watch Mr. Obama have fun with that one. A better economic strategy would be to confer the lowest possible tax rate on all U.S. corporations, including the 89% of economic activity in America that isn't manufacturing." ("Rick Santorum's Economy," 
, 1/9/12)
 "This is not free-market economics, this is trying to tilt the market toward manufacturing, and it will hurt the economy rather than help it, because resources would be artificially diverted from other sectors of the economy to manufacturing." (Dan Hirschhorn, "Rick Loses Market Value," 
, 2/17/12)
 (Bernie Becker, "Some Conservatives See Santorum's Tax Plan As 'Welfare In Disguise'," 
, 1/7/12)
 "Andy Roth from Club for Growth calls the manufacturing-favoritism 'bad tax policy.' He tells me that it suggests Santorum believes that 'government should be limited except when he is in charge.'" (Jennifer Rubin, "Santorum's Problem Isn't 'Insiderism,' It's Economic Literacy," 
, 2/14/12)
 (Dan Hirschhorn, "Rick Loses Market Value," 
, 2/17/12)