— 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will hold two large town hall meetings on college campuses in Louisiana, continuing the 12-term Congressman from Texas' tradition of attracting large crowds of supporters and undecided voters.
The college campus town hall meetings will occur on 
 beginning in the afternoon. Both events are free and open to the public as well as the university communities.
The first of Ron Paul's campus town hall meeting will take place at 1 p.m. CST in 
, located at 1140 College Drive, Pineville, LA 71360. Doors open to the public at 12:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for the town hall meeting featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click 
.
The second of Dr. Paul's two campus town hall meetings will occur at 7 p.m. CST at 
, located at 800 West University Avenue, Hammond, LA 70402. Doors open to the public at 6:30 p.m. To reserve your seat for this campus town hall meeting featuring Dr. Paul and enter the venue 30 minutes earlier than the general public, please click 
.
"We're excited to bring Ron Paul back to Louisiana, where he kicked off '
' at 
before presiding over the grand opening ceremony of his Louisiana state headquarters in Baton Rouge. Since then, thousands more people have joined the youth effort, and the energy around his campaign continues to grow. Young people and true conservatives know he's the only candidate who will bring real change to Washington, balance the budget, and boost our economy," said Edward King, National Youth Director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
Since 'Youth for Ron Paul' launched in September 2011, students nationwide have organized 588 chapters and recruited more than 50,000 people. To learn more about 'Youth for Ron Paul' including how to sign-up and establish a local chapter, visit the YFP website by clicking 
.
Both campus town hall meetings will be followed by an open press opportunity. Members of the local and major print, broadcast, and online media with particular needs should contact Assistant Press Secretary Arick Stall at
. Please, no exceptions.
Details of the events are as follows. All times Central.
1:00 p.m.

Campus Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul

Guinn Auditorium

Louisiana College

1140 College Drive

Pineville, LA 71360
For a map of the location, please click 
. To reserve your seat and enter 30 minutes early, click 
.
7:00 p.m.

Campus Town Hall Meeting with Ron Paul

University Center

Southeastern Louisiana University

800 West University Avenue

Hammond, LA 70402
For a map of the location, please click 
. To reserve your seat and enter 30 minutes early, click 
.