"Times may change, but President Obama's speeches stay the same. Two years ago, the President traveled to Maryland to talk about his energy policies and how he was 'helping folks save money at the pump.' Today, he's poised to give the same speech. But with record gas prices and growing discontent among the American people, President Obama's train of broken promises has finally reached the end of the line." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Barack Obama will visit Largo on Thursday to give an address on American energy, White House officials said Monday. The address comes at a critical time, when economists say rising gasoline prices are dragging on the nation's economic recovery." (John Fritze, "Obama To Visit Maryland, Discuss Energy," 
, 3/12/12)
 OBAMA: "And after decades in which we have done little to increase the efficiency of cars and trucks, we've raised fuel economy standards to reduce our dependence on foreign oil while helping folks save money at the pump." (President Barack Obama, 
 in Lanham, MD, 2/16/10)
 "Gasoline prices have never been higher this time of the year. At $3.53 a gallon, prices are already up 25 cents since Jan. 1. And experts say they could reach a record $4.25 a gallon by late April." ("Gas Prices Are Highest Ever For This Time Of Year," 
, 2/18/12)
 "U.S. gasoline prices also reached a record annual average high at $3.52 for a gallon of regular." (Coral Davenport, "Rising Oil Prices Could Fuel Political Rage," 
, 1/7/12)
 (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 
, 3/14/12)
 TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't — he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
 "Almost two-thirds of Americans, 65 percent, said they disapprove of the way President Barack Obama is dealing with rising prices at the pump, a new Washington Post/ABC News poll finds." (MJ Lee, "Poll: Most Say Obama Tanking On Gas," 
, 3/12/12)
 (MJ Lee, "Poll: Most Say Obama Tanking On Gas,"
, 3/12/12)