"There are two proposals on the table for addressing the nation's entitlement crisis. Mitt Romney — along with a bipartisan group of leaders — has offered a solution that would introduce competition and choice into Medicare, control costs, and strengthen the program for future generations. President Obama has cut $500 billion from Medicare to fund Obamacare and created an unaccountable board with rationing power — all while America's debt is spiraling out of control and we continue to run trillion-dollar deficits. If President Obama's plan is to end Medicare as we know it, he should say so. If he has another plan, he should have the courage to put it forward. Until he explains his position and answers the following questions, he and his spokespeople are irrelevant to the national debate." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 
"His budget also proposes no meaningful reforms in entitlements, which are the fastest growing part of the budget and will grow even faster once ObamaCare really kicks in." (Editorial, "The Amazing Obama Budget," 
, 2/14/12)
 "[The budget proposal] avoids sacrifice with only minimal curbs on the unsustainable growth of Medicare even as it proposes a 10-year, $61 billion 'financial crisis responsibility fee' on big banks to recoup the 2008 Wall Street bailout." (Andrew Taylor "Obama Budget: New Spending With Recycled Tax Ideas," 
, 2/11/12)
 "Medicare is in serious trouble. The Medicare Trust Fund will be bankrupt in 2024, according to the 2011 Medicare Trustees Report — five years earlier than projected just last year." (Rep. Fred Upton, Op-Ed, "Dems Squeeze Medicare With IPAB," 
, 7/13/11)
"In February 2011, CBO estimated that the permanent reductions in the annual updates to Medicare's payment rates for most services in the fee-for-service sector (other than physicians' services) and the new mechanism for setting payment rates in the Medicare Advantage program will reduce Medicare outlays by $507 billion during the 2012—2021 period." (Douglas W. Elmendorf, "CBO's Analysis of the Major Health Care Legislation Enacted in March 2010," 
, 3/30/11)
 "Created under the health care law, IPAB would consist of 15 unelected, unaccountable members who can severely limit the health care services available to Medicare beneficiaries, while operating outside the usual system of checks and balances. In addition, this group of 15 is authorized to extend their rationing to the entire health care system. Beginning in 2013, if the chief actuary of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services decides that spending is expected to exceed certain targets, the IPAB will make recommendations to the secretary of health and human services to cut it. Barring an act of Congress, the secretary is mandated to implement these proposals." (Rep. Fred Upton, Op-Ed, "Dems Squeeze Medicare With IPAB," 
, 7/13/11)
 "Third, IPAB is effectively unaccountable. In practice, the law makes it almost impossible for Congress to reject or modify IPAB's decisions, even if those decisions override existing laws and protections that Congress passed. It's not really an advisory body, despite its name. The system is set up so that IPAB, rather than Congress and HHS acting under Congress' authority, makes the policy choices about Medicare." (Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Testimony before the House Budget Committee, 7/12/11)
 "Nationwide, compared to what would have been the case under prior law, by 2017, when the changes are fully phased-in, enrollment is projected to be 50 percent lower [7.4 million], the average would-be beneficiary will lose $3,700 in benefits (accounting for both those who remain in MA and those who leave), and the number of choices available in the average county will be reduced by about two-thirds."  (Robert A. Book and Michael Ramlet, "What Changes Will Health Reform Bring To Medicare Advantage Plan Benefits And Enrollment," Medical Industry Institute: Carlson School of Management, 10/11)
 (Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, 10/10)
 "The Office of the Medicare Actuary predicts by the end of this decade Medicare will pay doctors even less than Medicaid pays and, by then, 
.  So the Medicare Actuary cannot but conclude 'large reductions in Medicare payment rates to physicians 
 for beneficiary access to care; utilization, intensity, and quality of services.'" ("Democrats Already Ended Medicare 'As We Know It'," 
, 6/3/11)
 "If Medicare's provider reimbursements are drastically reduced the market will react in accord with the basic laws of economics. Providers will have three options: to close up shop, to refuse Medicare patients, or to shift the costs onto the other patients. None of these options help our healthcare system operate more effectively or more efficiently.  Today, Medicare coverage no longer guarantees access to care." (Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Testimony before the House Budget Committee, 7/12/11)
 NBC's TOM BROKAW: "Would you give Congress a date certain to reform Social Security and Medicare within two years after you take office? Because in a bipartisan way, everyone agrees, that's a big ticking time bomb that will eat us up maybe even more than the mortgage crisis." OBAMA: "Well, Tom, we're going to have to take on entitlements and I think we've got to do it quickly. We're going to have a lot of work to do, so I can't guarantee that we're going to do it in the next two years, but I'd like to do in the my first term as president." (Sen. Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Nashville, TN, 10/7/08)
 OBAMA: "I think everybody here is familiar enough with the budget problems to know that as bad as these deficits that we're running up over the next — that have already been run up have been, and despite the cost of both TARP and the stimulus, the real problem with our long-term deficit actually has to do with our entitlement obligations and the fact that historically if our revenues range between 18 and 20 percent of GDP, they are now at 16, it is just not sustainable." (President-Elect Barack Obama, 
 to 
 Editorial Board, 1/15/09)
 OBAMA: "[W]e're going to have to craft what George Stephanopoulos called a grand bargain. I try not to use the word grand in anything that I say, but we're going to have to shape a bargain. This, by the way, is where there are going to be some very difficult choices, and issues of sacrifice and responsibility and duty are going to come in, because what we have done is kicked this can down the road. We're now at the end of the road. And we are not in a position to kick it any further." (President-Elect Barack Obama, 
 to 
 Editorial Board, 1/15/09)