"Rick Santorum's complicated relationship with the truth goes beyond his false statements about Governor Romney's record. Senator Santorum can't seem to get his facts straight on his own record, either. Americans are tired of the same old exaggerations and falsehoods that come from career politicians." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "'Often wrong,' [Santorum] called himself in one column. 'But never in doubt.'" (David A. Fahrenthold, "Rick Santorum's Inquirer Columns Offer A Window Into The Candidate's Mind," 
, 2/22/12)
 "Santorum said that when he was in Congress the members would 'publicly request' earmarks in an 'open process.' That's not true. The rules requiring public disclosure did not pass until 2007 — after Santorum left office." ("Fact-Mauling In Mesa," 
, 2/23/12)
 (Josh Hicks, "Rick Santorum's Defense Of Debt Ceiling Votes," 
, 2/24/12)
 "Santorum, however, is the one misrepresenting the facts. Members of Congress did not have to publicly disclose their earmarks when he was in Congress. The requests were privately submitted to the relevant appropriations committees. Even earmarks that were inserted into spending bills did not carry the sponsors' names. Public disclosure was left up to the individual members, many of whom took credit for projects in their districts or states. That lack of transparency changed in 2007, when the House and Senate passed legislation requiring the disclosure of earmarks. Santorum was defeated in his bid to win reelection to the Senate in 2006." ("Fact-Mauling In Mesa," 
, 2/23/12)
 "'In every state, we've been campaigning and campaigning hard,' Santorum said. 'We haven't blown off any state, we've gone to every state. Well, I didn't go to Alaska, but there was a reason for that.' ... Of course, Santorum did not compete in every state, choosing not to campaign in Vermont, Maine, Massachusetts, Wyoming as well as Alaska. He did not campaign in Virginia, but he — along with Newt Gingrich — was not on the ballot in that state." (Shushannah Walshe, "Santorum Admits 'Lowlights,' Says If Campaign Is About Math 'We Are In Very, Very Tough Shape'," 
, 3/11/12)
 "Rick Santorum grossly mischaracterized euthanasia practices in the Netherlands during an appearance at a faith conference. He overstated the rate of euthanasia and falsely claimed that the elderly are being killed against their will and wear 'do not euthanize me' bracelets ... Santorum's statistics aren't close to being true, either." (Michael Morse and Eugene Kiely, "Santorum's Bogus Euthanasia Claims," 
, 2/22/12)
 (Glenn Kessler, "Euthanasia In The Netherlands: Rick Santorum's Bogus Statistics," 
, 2/22/12)
 (Robert Mackey, "Dutch Puzzled By Santorum's False Claim Of Forced Euthanasia," 
, 2/22/12)
 "He said on Sunday that conservatives often feel persecuted on college campuses. 'I've gone through it,' Mr. Santorum said. 'I went through it at Penn State. You talk to most kids who go to college who are conservatives, and you are singled out, you are ridiculed.' 'I can tell you personally,' he added, 'I went through a process where I was docked for my conservative views.' He did not elaborate." (Katharine Q. Seelye, "Santorum Says Religion And Conservative Principles Are At Risk," 
, 2/26/12)
 (Glenn Kessler, "Santorum's Misfire On Obama, Colleges And Religion," 
, 2/28/12)
 "Santorum also completely misstated the results of research on the impact of college attendance on religious behavior. The relevant studies suggest that going to college actually increases religious attendance (albeit with perhaps a bit more skeptical mind)." (Glenn Kessler, "Santorum's Misfire On Obama, Colleges And Religion," 
, 2/28/12)
 "Santorum claimed that Obama 'once said he wants everybody in America to go to college.' We found 18 statements from Obama about people attending college. In the vast majority of the 18, Obama talked about making college a possibility or included the option of attending community colleges or vocational training instead. ... We rate the claim False." ("Rick Santorum Calls Barack Obama A 'Snob' For Wanting 'Everybody In America To Go To College'," 
, 2/27/12)
 ANCHOR: "You voted to raise the debt ceiling five times." SANTORUM: "Right, but during the time I was there, the debt-to-GDP ratio of the federal debt to the growth actually went down." (WKAR's "
," 2/17/12)
 (White House Office Of Management & Budget Website, 
, 3/2/12)