 Newt Gingrich announced today the formulation of his Kansas Leadership Team, a coalition of state legislators and grassroots leaders in charge of his efforts leading up to the Kansas Caucus on March 10.
"I'm very proud of this impressive team led by Beverly Gossage and Mike Pirner. Kansas is a very important state in the primary season, and this large grassroots effort of citizen leaders demonstrates that my citizen-centered model of changing our country is working in the Sunflower State," said Gingrich.
Leading the effort is Statewide Chairwoman 
. Beverly is the owner of HSA Benefits Consulting and a member of the Kansas GOP Executive Committee in Kansas. Her unique experience as an educator, broker and health care reform specialist has given her firsthand knowledge of the current health insurance marketplace and the complex reasons for high health care costs. Consequently, she is requested nationwide to educate businesses, individuals, legislators and government employees on the impact of 
the federal health reform law.  She has spoken at numerous conferences, including ALEC, NCSL, LOMA, NCPA, SPN, TIBA, NFIB and state and local Chambers of Commerce. 
Gossage serves on three of the eight Exchange Working Groups and has been instrumental in fighting Obamacare nationwide. In 2006 President Bush invited Gossage to serve on an HSA roundtable council.
"It is an honor to be named Chairwoman of Newt's campaign in Kansas.  Newt is the President we need to repeal ObamaCare, reduce gasoline prices to $2.50 a gallon, balance the budget, and restore American exceptionalism," said Gossage.
The campaign effort in Kansas is also aided by a previously announced 12-member legislative leadership team:
In charge of the ground game is State Director 
. Assisting Mike in the grassroots effort is a large team of political activists and grassroots leaders around the state, including 
 as Assistant State Director and 
 as Volunteer Coordinator.
The following coordinators are assisting in each of the state's four Congressional districts:


Phyllis Hadley, Eric Brown, Warren Shafer, Dan Baffa, Judi Tabler, Gregg Burns, Brandon Day, Kathy Scharplaz, David Butler


Josh Gosser, Jeff Locke, Holly Friesen, Liz Hajovsky, Barb Jones, Lori Sevedge, Kris Van Meteren, Jeff Klemp, Jeffrey  Kelley, Sam Niemcyzk, Rane Cravens


David Lightner, Bill Boillot, Charles Sciolaro, Vicki Sciolaro, Carl Walston, E.J. Irish, Rachel Sciolaro


Jim Thompson, Rodney Wren, Grace Klaassen, Michael Rix, John Dixon, Rhandi Pendergrass