"The last thing President Obama and his team want to do is face Mitt Romney in the general election. Their factually false television ad proves they are more focused on Mitt Romney than they are on getting Michiganders back to work. President Obama is desperate to hold onto power."  —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Spokesperson
 The jobless rate has been above 8% since February 2009, a thirty-six month span unequaled in recorded history. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
, 2/16/12)
 Since December 2009, more than 40% of jobless workers have been unemployed for six months or longer, the highest level in recorded history. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
, 2/16/12)
 "Obama's budget projects that the deficit for the current year will total $1.33 trillion, the fourth straight year of deficits over $1 trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," 
, 2/14/12)
 "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 ROMNEY: "I think they wanted $50 billion. And I wrote an Op-Ed in the paper and I said, absolutely not. Do not write a check for $50 billion. These companies need to go through a managed bankruptcy, just like airlines have, just like other industries have. Go through a managed bankruptcy" (Mitt Romney, Remarks At CNN Republican Presidential Debate, Mesa, AZ, 2/22/12)
 ROMNEY: "No way would we allow the auto industry in America to totally implode and disappear. That was my view. Go through bankruptcy. When that happens, then the market can help lift them out." (Mitt Romney, Remarks At CNN Republican Presidential Debate, Mesa, AZ, 2/22/12)
 "There's just one small thing to consider: Mitt Romney didn't write the headline. ... After Democrats harangued Romney for his anti-bailout stance last week, sources at the New York Times confirmed for RCP that an editor at the Gray Lady chose 'Let Detroit Go Bankrupt.' What's more, Romney and his team never got a chance to see or approve of it before publication." (Erin McPike, ""Bankrupt" Headline: An Unfair Albatross For Romney?," 
, 2/21/12)