"As pitchers and catchers report for spring training, Rick Santorum eloquently reminded us last night that he reported to the team in Washington for a long time." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Communications Director
 SANTORUM: "If I can stand up in the state of Pennsylvania, which hasn't elected a Republican president since 1988, and have a strong, principled voting record on issues that were tough in my state, senior issues, imagine now, as president of the United States, with a Tea Party movement and a conservative — a riled-up conservative base, what we can accomplish in Washington, D.C." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)
 SANTORUM: "I supported No Child Left Behind. I supported it. It was the principal priority of President Bush to try to take on a failing education system and try to impose some sort of testing regime that would be able to quantify how well we're doing with respect to education. I have to admit, I voted for that. It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)
 "Up until today, Rick Santorum didn't seem too shy of defending his vote for the Bush-era education reform known as No Child Left Behind. He even had a web page on his campaign site backing up his position. Then in Wednesday's debate he did a 180, called it an accident, said sometimes you take one for the team and that politics is a team sport — all after being called out on his support for the law. Now the page that used to defend his NCLB decision on his website is gone, reading only 'the requested page could not be found.' ... [A]s recently as yesterday, the page was still up ... No mention of taking one for the team or an accident." ("Santorum Campaign Removes Web Page Defending No Child Left Behind," 
 
, 2/22/12)
 (H.R. 1, CQ Vote #192: Passed 91-8: R 43-6; D 47-2; I 1-0, 6/14/01, Santorum Voted Yea)
 "The President's budget includes funding for No Child Left Behind that would increase to $24.4 billion, up 4.6 percent from 2006 and up 40 percent since 2001." (U.S. Department of Education, 
, 2/6/06)
 "Rick has voted for record levels of funding for Pennsylvania's public schools." (Santorum 2006, "50 Things You May Not Know About Rick Santorum," 
)
 "Senator Santorum has visited nearly 150 Pennsylvania Elementary and Secondary Schools to hear local concerns: Key points heard repeatedly from these teachers, principals, school board members, and parents working hard to provide a quality education for all children are the importance of local control, parental involvement, accountability, flexibility, and no more federal mandates without adequate federal funds." (Sen. Rick Santorum Website, 
 12/21/01)