 "Not only is the former governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney, best prepared, according to those criteria, of all the remaining GOP presidential hopefuls. He is also among the most skilled job-creating candidates for chief executive we can imagine." (Editorial, "Romney Right For These Times," 
, 2/24/12)
 "Romney has a refreshing free market vision for restoring the nation's prosperity. He sees a return to our entrepreneurial roots, freeing individuals to reach for their dreams, take risks and strive for gain with minimal government encumbrances." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For Michigan GOP Primary," 
, 2/22/12)
 "Romney especially distinguishes himself from his Republican rivals — and the president — through his broad experience in business and in public service. In addition to his years investing in companies at Bain Capital, Romney is widely known for saving the troubled 2002 Olympic Games in Salt Lake City." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: Experience And Wide Appeal Make Him The Best GOP Presidential Nominee," 
, 2/5/12)
 "As governor of Massachusetts, Romney, despite a Democratic-controlled legislature, left behind a $2 billion rainy day fund. He had earlier rescued the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. Those achievements demonstrate Romney is capable of managing under difficult conditions." (Editorial, "Romney Right For Colorado Republicans," 
, 2/3/12)
 "Of those remaining, the former Massachusetts governor is the candidate who best represents the long-held values of Republican Party. Equally important, he is the one candidate who can be elected and the one best able to deal with the political realities in Washington, D.C., to accomplish what he and his party hope to accomplish if he's elected president of the United States." (Editorial, "Romney Is The Best Choice For The GOP Nomination," 
, 2/3/12)
 "Mr. Romney is pro-growth all the way. He wants the country to develop all its energy resources, not punish the oil, coal and gas sectors. He wants states and citizens to have more freedom to innovate. And perhaps most importantly, Mr. Romney is a Washington outsider, not a capital insider." (Editorial, "Romney Stands Out In Gop Field," 
, 1/29/12)
 "The former Massachusetts governor has an impressive record, in and out of public office. His extensive background, steady temperament and sense of purpose make him the right GOP choice for the crucial task of leading our nation out of tough times and virtual political gridlock." (Editorial, "Vote For Romney On Saturday," 
, 1/20/12)
 "Romney is a genuine conservative. He plans to reduce the size of the federal government. Romney has an extensive plan to return various federal programs to the states, where they can be run more efficiently and with a better eye toward local needs." (Editorial, "Romney Is GOP's Best Bet," 
, 1/17/12)
 "Romney is best equipped of the Republican candidates to help this country get its financial house in order, to rein in a federal government inclined to add crushing regulations, to free business capital to create jobs and to improve the lives of Americans up and down the economic ladder. He is thoughtful when it comes to protecting the country, enhancing its national security and improving its relationship with trusted allies. At the same time, his executive experience in the business world and in state government gives him an undeniable advantage in this Republican primary." (Editorial, "Romney Best Choice For Republicans," 
, 1/15/12)
 "About the economy and how to revive it, Romney has a pro-growth plan that is solidly conservative." (Editorial, "Romney Is The Clear GOP Choice," 
, 1/8/12)
 "But perhaps more to the point, there is only one candidate who can put this nation back on the path to fiscal sanity and restore it to its central role on the world stage. That candidate is Mitt Romney." (Editorial, "Nation Needs Romney," 
, 12/27/11)
 "Based on his long years of experience creating thousands of jobs here in the private sector, Romney knows how to fix the economy." (Editorial, "Romney Is GOP's Best Choice," 
, 12/14/11)
 "And lest we be remiss in crediting Romney's accomplishments that make him better suited than others to be the GOP nominee, there is his turnaround of the Salt Lake City Olympic Games in 2002. Voters must not forget that Romney did, indeed, make a silk purse out of a sow's ear." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: Best Suited To Be The GOP's Standard-Bearer," 
, 12/4/11)
 "Sobriety, wisdom and judgment. Those are qualities Mitt Romney said he looks for in a leader. Those are qualities Romney himself has demonstrated in his career in business, public service and government. Those qualities help the former Massachusetts governor stand out as the most qualified Republican candidate competing in the Iowa caucuses." (Editorial, "The Des Moines Register's GOP Caucus Endorsement: Mitt Romney Is Best To Lead," 
, 12/17/11)
 "In the remaining days, weeks and months of his presidency, he will rely on the collective strength of this nation to restore us to greatness. Mitt Romney is the man — the only man — who can beat Barack Obama." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney Is Best Man To Restore Nation's Greatness," 
, 12/18/11)
 (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," 
, 10/22/06)
 (Editorial, "Casey For Senate," 
, 10/22/06)
 "[Santorum] bears responsibility for mixing the toxic elixir that poisoned the Republican-led Congress with lobbying scandals. Santorum led a relentless, heavy-handed effort to install only Republicans in top lobbying jobs." (Editorial, "Bob Casey Jr. For Senate," 
, 10/22/06)
 (Editorial, "Give Edge To Casey In U.S. Senate Race," 
, 10/29/06)
 (Editorial, "For U.S. Senate, It's Casey," 
, 10/31/06)
 (Editorial, "Challenger Will Learn And Listen, Unlike His Incumbent Opponent," 
, 10/29/06)