"Last week, Senator Santorum accused others of 'misrepresenting the facts' on his history of prolific earmarking. It turns out Senator Santorum was the one misrepresenting the facts. For someone who defends earmarks so passionately, it is surprising he didn't tell the whole story. Perhaps Senator Santorum was just taking another one for the team in Washington." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 SANTORUM: "It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks. And sometimes you've got to rally together and do something." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/1/p>
 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," 
, 1/15/12)
 I'll Defend Earmarks." SANTORUM: "I'm not saying necessarily earmarks are bad. I have had a lot of earmarks. In fact, I'm very proud of all the earmarks I put in bills. I'll defend earmarks." (Fox News' "Hannity," 2/26/09)
 ("Under Attack, Santorum Defends 'Good' Earmarks," The Associated Press, 2/9/12)
 "Perhaps most important, Specter has leveraged his perch as a subcommittee chairman on the Appropriations Committee to deliver federal dollars to Pennsylvania to help Santorum. 'When I'm putting him first on earmarks, that shows that he's the guy who's got clout,' Specter said, adding that he helped Santorum secure a major job-training grant and that last year they jointly announced earmarks for defense companies in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley." (Jonathan E. Kaplan, "Specter To Repay Santorum," The Hill, 5/18/06)
 "Sen. Arlen Specter yesterday went before his toughest audience to date — all the Republican members of the U.S. Senate — and won fresh support from many of his colleagues in his quest to secure the chairmanship of the Judiciary Committee. ... Santorum described Specter as someone who recognized the responsibility of a chairman to support the team 'that put him there.' He noted that as chair of an Appropriations subcommittee, Specter voted against some things that he might have voted for had he not been chairman. 'You have to put your own personal issues aside and carry the water for the team,' Santorum said." (Steve Goldstein, "Specter Gains Support In Talks With Full Caucus," The Philadelphia Inquirer, 11/18/04)
 SANTORUM: "What happened in the earmark process was that members of Congress would ask, formally, publicly request these things, put them on paper, and have them allocated, and have them voted on a committee, have them voted on, on the floor of the Senate. ... The issue is, were they transparent? And the bottom line was, when I was in the United States Senate, there was transparency." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)
 "As for earmarks, Santorum staunchly supported them for years, and he defends his own use of the funding mechanism to this day. ... During the debate, Santorum defended his penchant for earmarking by insisting that the process was open to the public. But that wasn't the case until he left office. Congress passed reforms to deal with the issue in 2007. ... Santorum oddly accused Romney of misrepresenting the truth about earmarks when it was actually he who was wrangling for credibility in this case." (Josh Hicks, "Rick Santorum's Defense Of Debt Ceiling Votes," The Washington Post, 2/24/12)
 (Josh Hicks, "Rick Santorum's Defense Of Debt Ceiling Votes," The Washington Post, 2/24/12)
 (FactCheck.org, 2/23/12)