Increasing economic growth, employment, and incomes is a cornerstone of Mitt Romney's policy agenda. Faster growth creates the jobs and generates the incomes to fund the aspirations of American families, the opportunities of American businesses, and the priorities of America as a nation.
In September 2011, Romney introduced the most detailed plan for economic growth and job creation of any presidential candidate. Two months later, Romney proposed groundbreaking reforms to cut spending, move the nation toward a balanced budget, and strengthen both Medicare and Social Security.
Today, Romney expands on his existing plans to restore America's promise by introducing a bold, pro-growth proposal to cut taxes. This proposal for fundamental tax reform cuts marginal rates by twenty percent for individuals, broadens the tax base, and simplifies the code. When considered as a whole, Romney's policy prescriptions will jumpstart job creation, address the debt crisis, and make the federal government smaller, simpler, and smarter.
"America is not seeing robust economic growth because such growth is impossible in the policy environment created by President Obama," said Romney. "Rapidly rising federal spending and debt threatens our economic future, and the President has responded by proposing the largest tax increase in history. The result will only be less growth, fewer jobs, and more of the uncertainty that leads U.S. business leaders to sit on cash rather than put it to work." 
Addressing this problem requires that America turn away from the Obama administration's unprecedented increases in taxes, spending, and debt. Instead, government spending must be tamed, and the tax system must be reformed to create jobs and increase wages, while still raising the revenue needed for the nation's priorities.
"The right way forward is a flatter, fairer, simpler tax system that generates the revenue we need to fund a smaller government that is restrained to its historical size," said Romney. "My plan sends signals of stability to business leaders and investors around the world, conveys a process for accomplishing these goals, and draws on my leadership skills and real-world experience to integrate and implement a comprehensive economic policy."
Romney presented the details of his plan:
Reducing and stabilizing federal spending is essential, but breathing life into the present anemic recovery will also require fixing the nation's tax code to focus on jobs and growth. To repair the nation's tax code, marginal rates must be brought down to stimulate entrepreneurship, job creation, and investment, while still raising the revenue needed to fund a smaller, smarter, simpler government. The principle of fairness must be preserved in federal tax and spending policy.
America's individual tax code applies relatively high marginal tax rates on a narrow tax base. Those high rates discourage work and entrepreneurship, as well as savings and investment. With 54 percent of private sector workers employed outside of corporations, individual rates also define the incentives for job-creating businesses. Lower marginal tax rates secure for all Americans the economic gains from tax reform.
The U.S. economy's 35 percent corporate tax rate is among the highest in the industrial world, reducing the ability of our nation's businesses to compete in the global economy and to invest and create jobs at home. By limiting investment and growth, the high rate of corporate tax also hurts U.S. wages.
As he announced in his fiscal plan last November, Romney is committed to reducing federal spending to 20 percent of GDP by 2016 while reversing President Obama's dangerous cuts to national defense.  Achieving this goal will require spending cuts of approximately $500 billion. The result will be to return government's share of what this nation produces to the level pre-dating the financial crisis and the rapid escalation of spending under President Obama. Specifically, the plan:
Looking ahead to yawning future deficits from the unfunded promises of Social Security and Medicare that threaten the nation's solvency and foreshadow growth-destroying tax hikes, Romney proposes to shore up these important programs without impacting seniors who are at or near retirement, and without tax hikes.
If America goes down the road proposed by the President, it will eventually face crippling tax increases that destroy jobs and stifle economic growth.  Only Governor Romney has proposed a comprehensive plan to Restore America's Promise with More Jobs, Less Debt, and Smaller Government.