"Congressman/Senator Rick Santorum may be proud of his days of 'taking one for the team' in Washington. But that's exactly the type of career politician that Republican voters are tired of. If Washington excuses and insiders are the problem, Rick Santorum can't be the solution." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 SANTORUM: "It was against the principles I believed in, but, you know, when you're part of the team, sometimes you take one for the team, for the leader, and I made a mistake. You know, politics is a team sport, folks. And sometimes you've got to rally together and do something." (GOP Presidential Debate, 2/22/12)
 "For more than a year, Rick Santorum has labored to cast himself as an outsider ready to go to Washington to challenge business as usual, which makes it all the more puzzling why he decided to use the crucial debate in Mesa to sound like the ultimate Washington insider. ... Perhaps his worst moment was his attempt to explain why he voted for No Child Left Behind even though he opposed it. There were echoes of John Kerry's 'I voted for it before I voted against it' only without Kerry's coherence." (George E. Condon Jr., "Santorum Sounds Like Ultimate Washington Insider in Debate," 
, 2/22/12)
 SANTORUM: "Whatever the salary is when I walk into office on January whatever, that's what I'll take. I won't take one additional penny for as long as I'm in Congress." ("No Raises For Rick," 
, 11/8/90)
 "Attorney Rick Santorum shocked seven-term Democratic Rep. Doug Walgren by hitting anti-incumbent themes like the Congressional pay raise and special-interest political money in his campaign." ("Democrats Retain Control Of House," 
, 11/7/90)
 "A Republican challenger is claiming home is not where Rep. Doug Walgren's (D-Pa) heart is ... Santorum's [TV] spot is the essence of simplicity. Strange music plays while a picture of an attractive white house is shown. The announcer says, 'There's something strange about this house.' The reason is because Walgren lives in McLean, which is 'the wealthiest area of Virginia' rather than his suburban district. 'Maybe that's why he voted for a pay raise seven times,' the announcer argues." ("Walgren Slammed In Opponent's Spots For Living In McLean," 
, 11/5/90)
 "Santorum's loss was a long time coming. By the time of his nearly 18-point loss — a stunning margin for a two-term incumbent — he had also alienated women voters, moderate Republicans and independents — not to mention the Democrats he had once won over. He lost almost every region of the state and almost every demographic group, including the blue collar workers he singles out on the campaign trail in 2012." (Carrie Budoff Brown, "Landslide '06 Loss Undercuts Santorum's Bid," 
, 1/5/12)
 "By the time of his defeat as part of an anti-war, anti-incumbent tide, even some conservatives were frustrated with Santorum. Some saw him as too much a part of the big-spending establishment and others didn't like that he chose to endorse Arlen Specter, then a moderate Republican senator who years later would switch to the Democratic Party, over conservative Pat Toomey in the state's close 2004 Republican primary." (Andrew Miga, "Santorum Cites Appeal As Reliable Conservative," 
, 12/31/11)
 "A review of the financial disclosure form for Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, shows he made $65,000 for 'legislative policy consulting services' from American Continental Group, a government affairs and consulting firm — a.k.a. a lobbying firm — in Washington in 2010 up until Aug. 2 of [2011] when he filed his form." (Domenico Montanaro, "Santorum's Also 'Not A Lobbyist'," 
, 11/26/11)