 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," 
, 1/15/12)
 SANTORUM: "I'm not saying necessarily earmarks are bad. I have had a lot of earmarks. In fact, I'm very proud of all the earmarks I put in bills. I'll defend earmarks." (Fox News' "Hannity," 2/26/09)
 CNN's WOLF BLITZER: "You and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania probably got a billion dollars in earmarks for various projects in Pennsylvania. Do you want to respond to that accusation that they make against you?" SANTORUM: "Yeah, well, I'm sure Senator Specter got more than I did, because he was on the Appropriations Committee, but I believed at the time that Congress has a specific authority to spend money, and sometimes the Congress and the president disagree on how that money is spent. ... There's a whole bunch of things that Congress and the president disagree on, and sometimes Congress steps up and says no, Mr. President, you will spend the money this way. I don't think that's necessarily wrong. In fact, I think that's our duty to do so." (CNN's "
," 2/10/12)
 ("Under Attack, Santorum Defends 'Good' Earmarks," 
, 2/9/12)
 "Former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum is defending his votes to spend federal money on politically earmarked projects, including the so-called 'Bridge to Nowhere' in Alaska that was never built. ... [Santorum:] 'People say that I voted for "The Bridge to Nowhere." I did. I went with the federalist argument..." (William Petroski, "Santorum Defends Votes For 'Bridge To Nowhere' And Other Political Earmarks," 
, 12/29/11)
 "Typical of his campaigning these days was a stop earlier this month at the Pittsburgh Zoo, where he boasted to local reporters about how he'd fetched $500,000 from federal taxpayers to build one of the most luxurious polar-bear exhibits outside Arctic climates." ("Santorum Goes Full Circle," 
, 8/22/06)
 "$900,000 for Eastern Regional Research Center Hides and Leather Research conducted by the United States Department of Agriculture. The research, conducted at the Eastern Regional Research Center in Wyndmoor, provides the hides and leather industry with cost-effective and environmentally safe tanning processes which will enhance U.S. producers' competitiveness in world markets." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 6/23/05)
 "$400,000 for the Avian Conservation Center at the Philadelphia Zoo to develop exhibits to highlight bird migration and the mutually beneficial relationship between agriculture and conservation." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 7/17/01)