"Republican primary voters may be surprised to learn that Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum have a lot in common. Aside from being career politicians who embraced earmarks and voted to raise their own pay, both stayed in D.C. after leaving office and worked in the lobbying community. Mitt Romney offers something different. He is not a creature of Washington. He offers the kind of private sector and chief executive experience that career politicians can't match." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "[Gingrich's] Freddie Mac work gives off a whiff of lobbying, according to the contract he just released. Specifically, the Freddie Mac executive who hired Gingrich was not the CEO, nor the VP for operations, or the VP for communications, but Craig Thomas, the VP for Public Policy — that is, the head of Freddie Mac's lobbying operations. Thomas was a registered lobbyist at the time." (Timothy P. Carney, "Gingrich Worked For Freddie Mac's Lobby Shop," 
, 1/23/12)
 "A review of the financial disclosure form for Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania, shows he made $65,000 for 'legislative policy consulting services' from American Continental Group, a government affairs and consulting firm — a.k.a. a lobbying firm — in Washington in 2010 up until Aug. 2 of [2011] when he filed his form." (Domenico Montanaro, "Santorum's Also 'Not A Lobbyist'," 
, 11/26/11)
 PELOSI: "Hi! I'm Nancy Pelosi, life-long Democrat and Speaker of the House." GINGRICH: "And I'm Newt Gingrich, life-long Republican, and I used to be Speaker. PELOSI: "We don't always see eye to eye, do we Newt?" GINGRICH: "No, but we do agree: our country must take action to address climate change." PELOSI: "We need cleaner forms of energy, and we need them fast." GINGRICH: "If enough of us demand action from our leaders, we can spark the innovation we need. PELOSI: Go to WeCanSolveIt.org. Together, we can do this." (The We Campaign, 
, 4/24/08)
 "[W]hen running for re-election in 2006 against a tough Democratic challenger ... Santorum sought to portray himself as someone who worked with Democratic colleagues to get things done. In one vivid ad, Santorum stood in a pro wrestling ring to describe what politics should not be. ... He continued: 'I teamed up with Joe Lieberman to make college more affordable for low income families. And Barbara Boxer and I wrote a law protecting open space.'" (Jake Tapper, "Rick Santorum, Mr. Bipartisan Compromise — And Mr. Pro Wrestling?" 
, 1/4/12)
 "Over the next four years, while Gingrich was speaker, the number of earmarks doubled to more than 6,000 projects, while total earmark spending increased by more than 30 percent, according to data from the Congressional Research Service." (Kimberly Kindy and Dan Eggen, "Expansion Of Earmarks While Gingrich Was Speaker Could Alienate Tea Party Voters," 
, 6/8/11)
 "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," 
, 1/15/12)
 "House Speaker Newt Gingrich has shored up his support in the House by sparing members an embarrassing up-or-down vote on a $3,000 pay raise. Mr. Gingrich helped to block repeated efforts by Rep. Linda Smith, Washington Republican, and about a dozen other Republicans from getting a floor vote, which would very likely have killed the annual salary increase members are scheduled to receive under current law." (Nancy E. Roman, "Gingrich Safeguards Pay Raise For Colleagues," 
, 9/28/97)
 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 "Whatever the salary is when I walk into office on January whatever, that's what I'll take. I won't take one additional penny for as long as I'm in Congress." ("No Raises For Rick," 
, 11/8/90)