"In 2008, Barack Obama promised he would solve our nation's energy crisis and lower gas prices 'once and for all.' Four years later, with record gas prices and an economy struggling for growth, we're still waiting for him to deliver. Americans deserve a president who can deliver real energy solutions and pro-growth policies, not more empty rhetoric and broken promises." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Barack Obama intends to press lawmakers Thursday to quickly strip billions of dollars in oil industry tax breaks, remarks that will come during his second energy-themed speech in two weeks aimed at blunting GOP attacks over gasoline prices. Obama will speak Thursday afternoon at Nashua Community College in the swing state of New Hampshire." (Ben Geman, "Amid Rising Gas Prices, Obama To Call For Vote On Killing Oil Tax Breaks," 
, 3/1/12)
 OBAMA: "And as President, I will work to solve this energy crisis once and for all. We'll invest $150 billion over the next ten years in establishing a green energy sector that will create up to 5 million new jobs - and those are jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. We'll invest in clean energies like solar, wind, and biodiesel. And we'll help make sure that the fuel we're using is more efficient." (Sen. Barack Obama, 
, Indianapolis, IN, 4/25/08)
 OBAMA: "We can't wait to fix our schools. We can't wait to fix our health care system. We can't wait to have an energy policy that makes sense in this country and that can start lowering gas prices and — and create new sources of energy. We can't wait to bring this war in Iraq to an end. We cannot wait." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks in Pittsburgh, PA, 3/28/08)
 "The nationwide average for gasoline prices approached $3.74 a gallon Thursday, continuing a steady rise for the 23rd consecutive day, according to the motorist group AAA. The average price rose 0.7 cent a gallon in the latest 24-hour period, AAA said. A month ago, the nationwide average was $3.44 a gallon." ("Gas Prices Continue Steady Climb," 
, 3/1/12)
 "U.S. gas prices have jumped 8.8 percent since the start of this year, according to the Energy Information Agency, topping an average of $3.65 a gallon in the week ended February 22. This was a record for this time of the year, when prices are usually on the low side because of slow seasonal demand." (Nivedita Bhattacharjee, "Analysis: Gas Prices Siphon Sales From Restaurants," 
, 2/29/12)
 TODD: "There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't — he's made no progress." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)
 HENDERSON: "No, he's made no progress. I remember covering him on the campaign and he would talk about, you know, turning these manufacturing plants into wind turbine plants and it seemed to work then, but, you know, in terms of the reality and on the ground actually success during his presidency, absolutely none." (MSNBC's "The Daily Rundown," 2/23/12)