Verona, PA - Former Governor Mitt Romney continues flailing around and pushing ridiculous negative attacks. Of course nobody is surprised at this point because when you only win your home state by 3% and win the same amount of delegates as the opponent you outspent by millions to tear down with misleading negative attacks, flailing is a natural reaction.
Hogan Gidley, National Communications Director, said: "Rick Santorum knows that to defeat Barack Obama we must do two things: excite the conservative base and appeal to Reagan Democrats. After running for President twice, it's clear that Mitt Romney can't do either.
We put out a robo-call in Michigan to let Reagan Democrats know that Rick Santorum is a conservative in the Reagan mold who has a history of reforming Washington, cutting taxes, and ending entitlements. In fact, the message was clear, 'Rick is a conservative who will revitalize this economy and its manufacturing sector - join the fight.' Simultaneously, Mitt Romney's campaign was pushing fundraising e-mails courting Democrats too - but Romney's e-message was, 'wink wink don't forget, I'm a moderate...I supported a woman's right to choose, I opposed the NRA, I went to Planned Parenthood events.' So while Rick was saying we are conservatives, we have a message, a vision - move to us; Mitt Romney was saying I'm a moderate and we'll move to you."
The fact that Mitt Romney is whining that hard working, blue collar Democrats decided to vote in Michigan's open primary is laughable.  Not only did Mitt Romney boast of voting in the 1992 Massachusetts Democrat primary, argue that he didn't want to "return to Reagan-Bush," but he has spent nearly his entire political career acting like a Democrat - that is until he made the calculated decision to run for President."
 "When Kennedy called him 'multiple choice,' Romney demanded an extra rebuttal. He revealed that a close relative died of an illegal abortion years ago and said, 'Since that time, my mother and my family have been committed to the belief that we can believe as we want, but we will not force our beliefs on others on that matter, and you will not see me wavering on that.'" (
 3/2/06)
 ..." (
 9/10/94)
(
 5/19/94)
(2002 Gubernatorial Debate, 10/29/02)
 "Former governor Mitt Romney's economic development agency granted initial approval to a tax-exempt bond last year for a Planned Parenthood clinic in Worcester that will provide abortions, just two months before he left office and began highlighting his antiabortion position as a presidential candidate." (
 12/29/07)
 "In another nod to environmentalists, Gov. Mitt Romney has joined with New York Gov. George Pataki in a plan to limit greenhouse gases from Northeast power plants. In a July 21 letter to Mr. Pataki, Mr. Romney acknowledged that carbon dioxide emissions are harming the environment and agreed to help design a regional emissions cap for power generating plants." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Joins Bid To Curb Emissions," 
 8/6/03)
 "The Plan represents Massachusetts' commitment to implementing the regional climate change plan adopted by the New England Governors and Eastern Canadian Premiers (NEG/ECP) in August 2001." (Gov. Mitt Romney et. al., "Massachusetts Climate Protection Plan," Spring/04)
 "I concur that climate change is beginning to affect our natural resources and that now is the time to take action toward climate protection. ... I share your interest in ensuring that the economic and security contributions made by our electricity generating system are not negated by the impact of emissions from that system on the health of our citizens. ... Our joint work to create a flexible market-based regional cap and trade system could serve as an effective approach to meeting these goals." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Joins Bid To Curb Emissions," 
 8/6/03)
 "Mitt Romney this week accused President Obama of kowtowing to 'big labor' and slammed Rick Santorum, one of his challengers for the Republican presidential nomination, as 'labor's favorite senator.' But as governor of Massachusetts, Romney fiercely protected a costly and controversial perk for police officers after seeking and receiving the endorsement of the politically influential police unions." (Maria Cramer, "In Quinn Bill Debate, Mitt Romney Stood By Labor," 
 2/18/12)
 "The Massachusetts healthcare law that then-Gov. Mitt Romney signed in 2006 includes a program known as the Health Safety Net, which allows undocumented immigrants to get needed medical care along with others who lack insurance. 
 Commonsense conservative voters realize that any proposal to legalize illegal immigrants, which does not first require illegals to depart the U.S. and apply legally from their home countries, constitutes amnesty. "In a November 2005 interview with the Globe, Romney described immigration proposals by McCain and others as 'quite different' from amnesty, because they required illegal immigrants to register with the government, work for years, pay taxes, not take public benefits, and pay a fine before applying for citizenship. 'That's very different than amnesty....It's saying you could work your way into becoming a legal resident of the country by working here without taking benefits and then applying and then paying a fine.'  (Scott Helman, "Romney's words grow hard on immigration," Boston Globe, 
, 3/16/2007)  
 "Governor Mitt Romney, who touts his conservative credentials to out-of-state Republicans, has passed over GOP lawyers for three-quarters of the 36 judicial vacancies he has faced, instead tapping registered Democrats or independents -- including two gay lawyers who have supported expanded same-sex rights, a Globe review of the nominations has found." (
 7/25/05)
(RomneyCare ObamaCare, Similarities Between Massachusetts Health Reform (aka: RomneyCare) and The Affordable Care Act (aka: ObamaCare) 
)