Today in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Mitt Romney criticized Big Labor for stifling economic growth and job creation. Once upon a time, labor unions fought to secure important protections for American workers and help our economy grow. Unfortunately, today they too often stand as obstacles to growth and fight against the workers they are supposed to serve.
Romney pointed to policies like Card Check, which would give more power to unions at the expense of workers, as examples of a broken system in need of reform. America must guarantee every worker the absolute right to vote on unionization by secret ballot, after having adequate time to learn about the pros and cons of a union and make an informed decision. We must also have Right-to-Work laws that give workers a choice in whether to support a union, and we need to protect worker paychecks from automatic deductions that unions spend on political causes.
President Obama has been an active supporter of Card Check, and pursued a pro-union agenda that has advanced Big Labor's interests at the expense of the economic recovery. Labor unions spent hundreds of millions of dollars to elect President Obama, and he has been paying them back ever since. The result has been to raise the cost of hiring workers, create enormous uncertainty for job creators, and reduce the job prospects for those in need of work. It was exactly the opposite of the course a pro-growth president would take.
Romney reiterated his detailed agenda for reducing the power of union bosses and returning it to the businesses and workers who will lead the economic recovery:
Provide each worker the same democratic protections provided to all Americans:
Support workers in their political activities, but ensure that all donations to the union are freely and fairly given:
Ensure that no worker is required to pay dues to a union he or she does not support:
Put a stop to practices that give unions special advantages in pursuing government contracts:
Obey the law and ensure that appointees will enforce the law instead of rewriting it: