"As governor of Massachusetts, I had the unique experience of defending our conservative principles in the most liberal state in our union. ... I was a conservative governor. I fought against long odds in a deep blue state. I understand the battles that we, as conservatives, must fight because I have been on the front lines." — Mitt Romney
Today at CPAC, Governor Mitt Romney laid out his vision for restoring conservative values to America. He also laid out a clear history of his time as Governor of Massachusetts, a conservative battling liberals in a deep blue state.
 "I disagree with the Supreme Judicial Court. Marriage is an institution between a man and a woman. I will support an amendment to the Massachusetts Constitution to make that expressly clear." (Office Of The Governor, "Statement By Governor Mitt Romney On SJC Decision On Same Sex Marriage," Press Release, 11/18/03)
 "Same-sex couples who live outside Massachusetts will not be able to marry in Massachusetts when gay marriage becomes legal here next month, Gov. Mitt Romney said. ... Mr. Romney said he was basing his decision on a 48-word law, adopted in 1913, which says that the state cannot marry an out-of-state couple if their marriage would be 'void' in their home state." (Pam Belluck, "Romney Won't Let Gay Outsiders Wed In Massachusetts," The New York Times, 4/25/04)
 "Society can ill afford erosion of charitable institutions. For these reasons, I join with those who support a federal constitutional amendment. (...) While they say they agree with the traditional definition of marriage, they hesitate to amend. But amendment is a vital and necessary aspect of our constitutional democracy, not an aberration." (Governor Mitt Romney, U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, Testimony, 6/22/04)
 "Gov. Mitt Romney vetoed a bill Friday to expand stem cell experiments in Massachusetts because it would allow the cloning of human embryos — a practice he has called morally wrong. ... He has said that amounts to creating human life only to destroy it. 'It is wrong to allow science to take an assembly line approach to the production of human embryos, the creation of which will be rooted in experimentation and destruction,' Romney wrote in a letter to lawmakers explaining the veto." (Theo Emery, "Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney Vetoes Stem Cell Bill," 
, 5/27/05)
 "Yesterday I vetoed a bill that the Legislature forwarded to my desk. Though described by its sponsors as a measure relating to contraception, there is more to it than that. The bill does not involve only the prevention of conception: The drug it authorizes would also terminate life after conception." (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Why I Vetoed The Contraception Bill," 
, 7/26/05)
 "Governor Mitt Romney yesterday announced that the state will funnel nearly $1 million in federal funds to a faith-based organization to teach abstinence to public middle school students in a dozen more communities across the state. 'We teach sex education, but there's no portion of sex education which talks about the advantages of waiting.' ... said Romney." (Andrea Estes and Tracy Jan, "State Widens Teaching Of Abstinence," The Boston Globe, 4/21/06)
 "Calling it an issue of 'religious liberty,' Governor Mitt Romney today said he plans to file legislation to permit religious institutions to perform adoptions without violating the tenets of their faith. Today, the board of Catholic Charities voted to stop doing adoptions because of state law which requires that gays be given equal consideration for the placement of children. Because of the Church's teaching, Catholic agencies may not provide adoptions to gay parents. 'This is a sad day for neglected and abandoned children. In this case, it's a mistake for our laws to put the rights of adults over the needs of children. While I respect the board's decision to stay true to their principles, I find the current state of the law deeply disturbing and a threat to religious freedom,' said Romney." (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Defending Religious Liberty, Romney To File Bill Exempting Religious Institutions From Gay Adoption Requirement," Press Release, 3/10/06)
 "When Mitt Romney became governor of Massachusetts in 2003, the state had a budget gap of almost $3 billion and was losing thousands of jobs a month. In Mr. Romney's four-year tenure, the deficit was eliminated without raising the sales tax or the income tax, and since the labor slump hit bottom in December 2003, the state has gained 81,000 jobs." (Pam Belluck, "Romney Candidacy Puts Massachusetts Economy In Spotlight," 
, 3/16/07)
 Over the course of four budgets, Governor Romney made over 300 line-item reductions, 350 line-item eliminations and struck language 150 times. (Chapter 26 Of The Commonwealth Of Massachusetts Acts Of 2003, Governor's Veto Message, 6/30/03; Chapter 149 Of The Commonwealth Of Massachusetts Acts Of 2004, Governor's Veto Message, 6/25/04; Chapter 45 Of The Commonwealth Of Massachusetts Acts Of 2005, Governor's Veto Message, 6/30/05; Governor Mitt Romney, Memo To The Senate And House Of Representatives Of The Commonwealth Of Massachusetts; Fiscal Year 2007 General Appropriations Act Veto Items: Line Item Accounts, 7/8/06)
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Economic Stimulus, Supplemental Budget Bills," Press Release, 11/26/03)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Bill To Give Seniors Tax Relief," Press Release, 11/20/05)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Promotes Tax-Free Shopping Day On Saturday," Press Release, 8/14/04)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney, Dimasi, Hart Promote Tax-Free Shopping Weekend," Press Release, 8/14/05)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Economic Stimulus, Supplemental Budget Bills," Press Release, 11/26/03)
 (Jay Fitzgerald, "Gov Nearly Halves Package; Rebellious Legislators Vow To Override Stimulus Vetoes," 
, 11/27/03)
 (Jessica Fargen, "Romney Pegs Courthouses For Repair Money," 
, 8/11/04)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs No New Tax Budget In Time For New Fiscal Year," Press Release, 6/30/03)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Governor Romney Signs $25.2 Billion FY 2007 State Budget," Press Release, 7/8/06)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Expands Tax Benefits For Disabled Veterans," Press Release, 8/14/06)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Legislation To Provide Energy Price Relief And Increase Conservation," Press Release, 11/22/05)
 (Stephen Heuser, "$660M Drug Plant, 550 Jobs For Mass.," 
, 6/2/06)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Into Law Landmark Fire Safety Legislation," Press Release, 8/17/04)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Urges Taxpayers To File For New Tax Breaks," Press Release, 1/24/06)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Expands Tax Benefits For Disabled Veterans," Press Release, 8/14/06)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "'Lights, Camera, Action!' In Massachusetts," Press Release, 11/23/05)
 ("Campaign Notes," 
, 7/8/06)
 (The General Court Of The Commonwealth Of Massachusetts, Chapter 141 Of The Acts Of 2003, "An Act Relative To Investments In Emerging Technologies To Promote Job Creation, Economic Stability And Competitiveness In The Massachusetts Economy")