"Oklahoma's favorite son, Will Rogers, said he never met a man he didn't like. Senator Santorum, on the other hand, apparently never met an earmark he didn't like. The Washington politicians who got us into this mess can't possibly lead us out. Mitt Romney spent his career building businesses and leading large enterprises through troubled times. As president, he will cut spending, reform government, and get our economy back on track." —Gail Gitcho, Romney Communications Director
 (Charles Babington, "Gingrich Defends His Attacks," 
, 1/15/12)
 In 1995, Santorum's first year in the Senate, federal spending was approximately $1.516 trillion. By 2007, when Santorum left the Senate, spending had increased to approximately $2.729 trillion. ("Fiscal Year 2012 Historical Tables Of The U.S. Government," 
, 2/14/11)
 "In all, Taxpayers for Common Sense estimated, Mr. Santorum helped secure more than $1 billion in earmarks during his Senate career, which stretched from 1995 through 2006." (Michael Luo and Mike McIntire, "Donors Gave As Santorum Won Earmarks," 
, 1/15/12)
 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 SANTORUM: "I'm not saying necessarily earmarks are bad. I have had a lot of earmarks. In fact, I'm very proud of all the earmarks I put in bills. I'll defend earmarks." (Fox News' "Hannity," 2/26/09)
 "Confronted with projected deficits until fiscal 2007, senior GOP lawmakers are backing away from long-standing rhetoric about the government's duty to live within its means. 'I came to the House as a real deficit hawk, but I am no longer a deficit hawk,' said Sen. Rick Santorum (R-Pa.). 'I'll tell you why. I had to spend the surpluses. Deficits make it easier to say no.'" (Hans Nichols, "Leadership Lines Up With Deficit Doves," 
, 2/5/03)
 "[T]he Tea Party and 2010 elections were largely about economic issues and the desire to limit the size, cost, and intrusiveness of government. And those issues are not Santorum's strong suit. ... He never met an earmark that he didn't like. In fact, it wasn't just earmarks for his own state that he favored, which might be forgiven as pure electoral pragmatism, but earmarks for everyone..." (Michael Tanner, "Santorum's Big-Government Conservatism," 
, 1/4/12)
 "Despite being elected twice as a Congressman, then twice again as a senator from Pennsylvania, Santorum's last race ended in a landslide defeat in his home state that raises questions about his national electability. Indeed, he was trounced in 2006 by 18 points by Bob Casey Jr., the largest margin of defeat for an incumbent since 1980." (Tim Mak, "Rick Santorum's Top 10 Problems," 
, 2/8/12)
 "Santorum's loss was a long time coming. By the time of his nearly 18-point loss — a stunning margin for a two-term incumbent — he had also alienated women voters, moderate Republicans and independents — not to mention the Democrats he had once won over. He lost almost every region of the state and almost every demographic group, including the blue collar workers he singles out on the campaign trail in 2012." (Carrie Budoff Brown, "Landslide '06 Loss Undercuts Santorum's Bid," 
, 1/5/12)
 "In 2008, all 77 of our counties lined up against Barack Obama. It's time for us to line up for Mitt Romney. From here, this movement needs to grow throughout the Heartland. ... We can be the voice of reason by supporting someone who on Day One will send a jobs package to Congress with the goal of putting America back on a path of robust economic growth. ... Mitt Romney is the man — the only man — who can beat Barack Obama." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney Is Best Man To Restore Nation's Greatness," 
, 12/18/11)