THE PRESIDENT said:
"I have today requested Secretaries Lamont, Davis, Wilbur, Hurley, Hyde, Mellon, and Governor Meyer of the Federal Reserve Board to formulate and submit to me plans continuing and strengthening the organization of Federal activities for employment during the winter.
"There are three directions of organization in which the Federal Government activities can cooperate: First, cooperation with the Governors and employment organizations of the States and local communities; second, development of methods with the national industries; and third, in direct Federal employment in public works, et cetera.
"It will be remembered that 10 months ago we set up such arrangements which have continued since that time, and which have contributed greatly to reduce unemployment. At that time the Governors of many of the States established strong committees for action in relief and most of these organizations have shown a high record of real accomplishment. The present conditions of organization vary greatly in different States. In the great majority of industrial States the Governors have, on their own initiative, taken steps to reorganize or develop or further strengthen their organizations for the forthcoming winter. During the past few weeks I have been in communication with some of the Governors in development of methods by which the Federal Government can further supplement assistance to their organizations. The Cabinet committee will further discuss these conditions with Governors and State agencies and we will again seek the cooperation of our business leaders and our national industries which we have had on so generous a scale during the past year. We shall also review the Federal situation of public works and the situation in construction among the national industries together with other methods by which we can continue to be of assistance. There are no two States or municipalities where the problem is the same or where the methods for assistance are identical. With the survey of the methods in progress for the past 10 months we should have valuable suggestive material and information for the winter.
"The initiative of the various Governors and local authorities in preparation for the winter is well indicated by the action of the Governor of Illinois who recently organized a State committee; reorganized efforts with the mayor of Detroit; the committees created in New York; the extraordinarily effective organization in the State of Ohio, and at many other points throughout the country--all of them indicating a strong feeling of local responsibility and determination to meet the situation.
"As a nation we must prevent hunger and cold to those of our people who are in honest difficulties."