"Rick Santorum is part of the big-spending Washington establishment that ran up the national debt by trillions and stuck our grandchildren with the bill. His ardent and passionate defense of earmarks is not something that fiscal conservatives are looking for in our next president. Mitt Romney supports a 'smaller, simpler, and smarter' government that cuts spending and frees us from the debt and deficits that politicians like Rick Santorum have created." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 "He voted for the 2005 highway bill that included thousands of wasteful earmarks, including the Bridge to Nowhere. In fact, in a separate vote, Santorum had the audacity to vote to continue funding the Bridge to Nowhere rather than send the money to rebuild New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina." ("2012 Presidential White Paper #4: Former Senator Rick Santorum," 
, 6/6/11)
 "Former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, an avid user of earmarks when he was in Congress, said he had reversed his position on the pet spending projects, which have fallen sharply out of favor with politicians of both parties." (Paul West, "Mitt Romney Defends His Massachusetts Healthcare Plan At 'Tea Party' Forum," 
, 4/29/11)
 "Former U.S. Sen. Rick Santorum, who is becoming less and less coy about his 2012 presidential aspirations, admitted during a luncheon Monday that he was once an ardent earmarker, but now believes they should be banned." (Colby Itkowitz, "Santorum Stumps In New Hampshire," 
, 11/29/10)
 (Fox News' "Hannity," 2/26/09)
 "'If the tea party folks say, "We need to get back to the Constitution," well, back to the Constitution means members of Congress should be spending this money, not the executive branch. And we're going the opposite direction, saying, "No, we're going to give all the power to the president,"' Santorum said. 'Well, if you look at the Constitution, the Constitution doesn't say the president spends the money, it says Congress spends the money. So I just think it's a little bit off.'" (Rudolph Bell, "Ex-Sen. Rick Santorum Says He 'Supported Port Earmarks,'" 
, 10/29/10)
 "Santorum said that while he took advantage of earmarks as a legislator, he didn't abuse them. 'Well, if you look at the Constitution of the United States, it says that Congress spends the money,' Santorum said on CNN's 'John King, USA.' 'And what happened was that earmarks were abused. Not mine, but others, who did abuse the earmark process.'" (Alicia Cohn, "Santorum Defends His Earmarks After Perry Attacks Them In Ad," 
, 12/30/11)
 ("Santorum Defends Earmarks," 
, 1/5/12)
 "Typical of his campaigning these days was a stop earlier this month at the Pittsburgh Zoo, where he boasted to local reporters about how he'd fetched $500,000 from federal taxpayers to build one of the most luxurious polar-bear exhibits outside Arctic climates. 'They're building underwater tunnels so you're actually under water,' Mr. Santorum told his awe-struck children as they toured the construction site and approached a tunnel of 4-inchglass that will allow zoo visitors to view the bears from below." ("Santorum Goes Full Circle," 
, 8/22/06)
 "After the zoo event, Mr. Santorum was asked whether funding for the polar-bear exhibit really was all that important, given the federal government's hemorrhaging debt, looming financial crisis in entitlement programs and expensive emergencies, such as the war in Iraq and rebuilding after Hurricane Katrina. 'If the pot of money is there, I'm going to make sure we get a piece of that money,' said Mr. Santorum, who defended his record of support for 'lean' budgets." ("Santorum Goes Full Circle," 
, 8/22/06)
 "'The federal government does finance educational programs with respect to biology and zoology and a whole host of areas that we think is important for our children,' he said. 'Is that an important thing? Well, you know, yeah, it probably is.'" ("Santorum Goes Full Circle," 
, 8/22/06)
 "U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today presented a check to the City of Pittsburgh for $500,000 for the completion of the Pittsburgh Riverfront Trail system. The funding was included in the Safe, Accountable, Flexible and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU)." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 2/20/06)
 "SVSS received $250,000 for the construction of 46 new Passenger Comfort Stations, purchase of shop equipment for a 'shared' vehicle storage/light maintenance facility, and construction of two additional parking facilities directly across from the Shenango Valley Shuttle Service's existing Transit Center." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 12/2/05)
 "'I am pleased to deliver $2 million to Upper Darby Township to assist with the construction of a parking garage that will help to improve access to the Market Street economic development corridor,' said Senator Santorum." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 10/14/05)
 "Santorum began his day by traveling to the Heinz History Center, joined by NFL legend Franco Harris from the Pittsburgh Steelers, to present $200,000 in funding to the Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center for its upcoming Western Pennsylvania Sports Museum, scheduled to open in November 2004. This funding was secured through the Department of Labor, Health and Human Services." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 2/16/04)
 "U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference, today traveled to Hazleton to announce the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee approval to earmark $3,000,000 in FY04 funding for the creation of the Hazleton Intermodal and Parking Center. ... The Hazleton Intermodal and Parking Center project is a mass transit and mobility improvement initiative that serves to provide the City of Hazleton with a new intermodal hub and an integrated parking garage affording residents with 405 parking spaces located in the downtown business district." (Sen. Rick Santorum, 
, 10/6/03)
 "By the time of his defeat as part of an anti-war, anti-incumbent tide, even some conservatives were frustrated with Santorum. Some saw him as too much a part of the big-spending establishment and others didn't like that he chose to endorse Arlen Specter, then a moderate Republican senator who years later would switch to the Democratic Party, over conservative Pat Toomey in the state's close 2004 Republican primary." (Andrew Miga, "Santorum Cites Appeal As Reliable Conservative," 
, 12/31/11)