 "The usually gregarious Gingrich did not speak with the press before or after the rally ... After shaking hands with supporters following his speech, Gingrich was unresponsive when I asked him multiple times about his expressed support for the concept of an individual mandate as recently as May 2009, which a recently unearthed audio clip reveals." (Michael Warren, "Smaller Crowd for Newt Before Primary," 
, 1/31/12)
 FOX's BRIAN KILMEADE: "I know in May of 2009 when Obamacare was being hashed out and debated, you seemed to be in favor of the 'must carry.' You said that it should either be there or, if you're an absolute libertarian, we'll allow you to post a bond instead. What changed your mind, or was that taken out of context?" GINGRICH: "Look, I think the more the Heritage Foundation and others who originally thought this was a good idea looked at it, the more clear it became that what happens is you have government intruding totally into your life, particularly at the federal level. I've talked about state level, but at the federal level, once you get Congress able to dictate every single thing you can do, you basically have given up freedom. And that's why virtually all of us who are conservative have come out against any kind of mandate." (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/31/12)
 GINGRICH: "The real foundation and most important part of this is individual rights, responsibilities, and expectation of behavior. ... We believe that there should be 'must carry' — that is, everybody should either have health insurance or, if you're an absolute libertarian, we would allow you to post a bond, but we would not allow people to be free riders, failing to insure themselves and then showing up at the emergency room with no means of payment. If you have 'must carry,' then the insurance companies have told us that we can have 'must issue,' and you will therefore have a system in which you don't have to worry about cherry-picking and maneuvering. ... As we move beyond today's press conference at the White House, this is the kind of general model we're going to be advocating." (Newt Gingrich, Conference Call, "ARRA: Impact On Healthcare Systems," 5/11/09)
 — 
 — 
 "During the interview, Gregory played a 1993 clip in which Gingrich said, 'I am for people, individuals — exactly like automobile insurance — individuals having health insurance and being required to have health insurance.'" (Kendra Marr, "Newt Gingrich Walks Back Health Care Mandate Support," 
, 5/16/11)
 GINGRICH: "I've said consistently we ought to have some requirement that you either have health insurance or you post a bond or in some way you indicate you're going to be held accountable. ...  It's a variation on [a mandate] ... But it's a system which allows people to have a range of choices which are designed by the economy. ... I don't think having a free rider system in health is any more appropriate than having a free rider system in any other part of our society." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 5/15/11)
 "Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Sunday that he strongly supports a federal mandate requiring citizens to buy health insurance — a position that has been rejected by many Republicans, including several who likely will be running against him for the Republican presidential nomination." (Tim Collie, "Gingrich Backs Obamacare's Individual Mandate Requiring Health Insurance," 
, 5/16/11)