"We recently learned that Speaker Gingrich's contract with Freddie Mac was provided by the lobbyists at Freddie Mac. I don't think we can possibly retake the White House if the person who's leading our party is the person who was working for the chief lobbyist of Freddie Mac. Freddie Mac was paying Speaker Gingrich $1.6 million at the same time Freddie Mac was costing the people of Nevada millions upon millions of dollars." —Governor Mitt Romney
 (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 1/24/12)
 "Newt Gingrich made between $1.6 million and $1.8 million in consulting fees from two contracts with mortgage company Freddie Mac, according to two people familiar with the arrangement." (Clea Benson and John McCormick, "Gingrich Said to Be Paid About $1.6 Million By Freddie Mac," 
, 11/16/11)
 "[Gingrich's] Freddie Mac work gives off a whiff of lobbying, according to the contract he just released. Specifically, the Freddie Mac executive who hired Gingrich was not the CEO, nor the VP for operations, or the VP for communications, but Craig Thomas, the VP for Public Policy — that is, the head of Freddie Mac's lobbying operations. Thomas was a registered lobbyist at the time. ... So, Gingrich may or may not have made lobbying contacts on Freddie's behalf, but it appears he was being paid to aid Freddie Mac's lobbying agenda." (Timothy P. Carney, "Gingrich Worked For Freddie Mac's Lobby Shop," 
, 1/23/12)
 "Romney said Newt Gingrich's contract was with 'the lobbyists at Freddie Mac.' ... The primary point of contact on the contract was one of Freddie's lobbyists. We rate Romney's statement True." (Angie Drobnic Holan, "Mitt Romney Says Newt Gingrich's Contract Was With Freddie Mac's Lobbyists," 
, 1/24/12)
 "At least one clause implies that more detailed records were submitted as part of his consultancy. A provision in the 'compensation' section of the contract required Mr. Gingrich to submit a 'detailed description of the services performed during the prior month' on the 15th of every month. His payment was contingent upon receiving those invoices. Those invoices were not made available Monday." ("Gingrich Releases A Freddie Mac Contract With Few Details," 
, 1/23/12)
 "Nevada has the highest negative equity percentage with 58 percent of all of its mortgaged properties underwater, followed by Arizona (47 percent), Florida (44 percent), Michigan (35 percent) and Georgia (30 percent)." ("Q3 2011 Negative Equity By State," 
, 11/29/11)
 "RealtyTrac reported Nevada had the nation's highest state foreclosure rate in the third quarter [2011], with one in every 44 housing units receiving a foreclosure filing." (Nathalie Tadena, "RealtyTrac: 3Q Foreclosure Filings Down 34% On Year," 
, 10/13/11)
("Q3 2011 Negative Equity By State," 
, 11/29/11)