 GINGRICH: "In 1980 I worked with the Reagan campaign. Ronald Reagan ended up beating Jimmy Carter by a bigger number of states than Franklin Roosevelt beat Herbert Hoover by. 1984, I worked with the Reagan campaign, he carried 49 states. In 1988, when Bush was down by 19 points, I got involved in defining Dukakis and that was in May and by November, Bush won by 6 which meant that one out of every four Americans switched between May and November." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks in Winter Park, FL, 1/28/12)
 "You know, I was attacked the other night for being grandiose. I just want you to know, Lincoln standing at Council Bluffs was grandiose. The Wright brothers going down to Kitty Hawk was grandiose. John F. Kennedy standing there saying we'll get to the moon in eight years was grandiose." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks in Cocoa, FL, 1/25/12)
 "'So, we're gonna help the poor?' [Gingrich] asks. 'Truth is, we don't know how to help the poor. We're gonna experiment and experiment and experiment until we break through.' That may not please the ear of a small-government conservative, but it is the essential Gingrich. 'It makes me, in some ways, like the two Roosevelts,' he says." (Peter J. Boyer, "Inside Newt's Stunning Comeback," 
, 12/10/11)
 "I think I am an effective government conservative, which is what the Founding Fathers were." (Bill Bennett's "Morning In America," 1/25/12)
 "Entering the debate season, Gingrich focused on his advantages, and he began to see his near implosion as a gift. Among other things, the departure of the political professionals left Gingrich to become his own strategist. 'Just as [Bill] Clinton was,' Gingrich says. ... 'People forget,' he says, 'that we are both very tough.'" (Peter J. Boyer, "Inside Newt's Stunning Comeback," 
, 12/10/11)
 "What I said was exactly what Alexander Hamilton wrote ... This is pure Hamilton ... which itself is drawn directly from Adam Smith's 'The Wealth of Nations.'" (Newt Gingrich, Bill Bennett's "Morning In America," 1/25/12)
 "In Bluffton, S.C., he told voters that he didn't need to lobby because after he left Congress, 'I was charging $60,000 a speech, and the number of speeches was going up, not down. Normally, celebrities leave and they gradually sell fewer speeches every year. We were selling more.'" (Frank Bruni, "And Now ... Professor Gingrich," 
, 12/3/11)
 "Tonight is the first time, I think probably since Lincoln's debates — his inaugural in 1861, that you've seen a presidential candidate in this kind of a setting talking in depth about the need to rebalance the judiciary ... and talking in a very serious, sophisticated way." (Fox News' "
," 12/15/11)
 "[Gingrich] created what he called 'a substance-based, volunteer-centered, Internet-based system.' He boasted that he was inventing a revolutionary new model of campaigning. 'I told somebody at one point, "This is like watching Walton or Kroc develop Walmart and McDonald's.'" (
's "Playbook," 11/30/11)
 QUESTION: "Several years ago you described yourself as a 'Jeffersonian populist.' Could you please explain that?" GINGRICH: "It's one of the points I make to conservatives who often describe themselves as 'Jeffersonian conservatives.'  It usually means they want passive, lean, inactive government. That I would never favor, nor did Jefferson." ("A Conversation With Newt Gingrich," 
, 5/89)
 "In the wake of the Virginia Republican Party's Saturday morning announcement that Newt Gingrich had not secured the required 10,000 valid signatures to run in the state's March 6 presidential primary ... [Gingrich campaign director Michael] Krull then invoked the 1941 Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor ... 'Newt and I agreed that the analogy is December 1941: We have experienced an unexpected setback, but we will regroup and refocus,' Krull said. '[I]n the end we will stand victorious.'" (Michael Leahy, "Gingrich Faces Long Odds To Compete In Virginia Presidential Primary," 
, 12/25/11)