Leading social conservatives in Florida signed on to a letter previously released by nine leading social conservatives praising Mitt Romney's record as Governor. The full text of the letter is below:
An Open Letter Regarding Governor Mitt Romney
January 29, 2012
Dear Fellow Conservatives:
At the end of last month, nine Massachusetts leaders representing a broad coalition of conservative activists penned an open letter in support of Mitt Romney and outlined his commitment to the values that we hold dear.  We felt that the letter that they wrote was very effective in helping many voters understand that Mitt Romney was a pro-life and a pro-family governor and that his record serves as public validation of his commitment to those same policies as President of the United States.
In light of the fact that in the past few days Newt Gingrich has used inflammatory language to mischaracterize Governor Romney's record on the issues of life and family, we decided to re-release that same letter from those Massachusetts leaders under our own signature.
The full content of the letter is included as follows, and we hope that you will not be discouraged by the destructive campaign tactics of Mr. Gingrich:
As leaders and members of Mitt Romney's Social Conservatives Coalition, we are proud to support Governor Romney for President.  We are confident of his pro-life and his pro-family commitment.  Our nation is in great need of leadership on these issues, and we believe Mitt Romney to be the right leader for our cause.
Truly Yours,
State Representative; Awarded the 2011 "Susan B. Anthony Young Leader Award"; 2012 Sponsor of the Abortion Clinic Regulation Act
Member of the Christian Family Coalition Finance Committee
State Representative; 2012 Sponsor of the "Fetal Pain" Bill
State Senator; 2007 Citizens for Science and Ethics Legislator of the Year for her fight against the public funding of embryonic stem cell research; 2009 Sponsor of the Ultra-sound Option Bill 
Member of the Board of Directors for the James Madison Institute; 2009-2010 Vice-Chair of Florida Right to Life
Headmaster for the School of the Immaculata; Tampa Bay Director for the 2008 "Yes4Marriage" Campaign
Business Manager of Hope Children's Home, a Tampa-based Christian orphanage; Vice-Chair of the Hillsborough County Children's Board
Twice commissioned Respect Life Coordinator for the Diocese of St. Augustine; State Steering Committee of Social Conservatives for Rubio
Appointed by Governor Jeb Bush to head up abstinence education in Florida; Program Director for My-Choices.Net
Past Chairman of the Board of the Christian Coalition of Florida; Chairman of the Board of the Faith and Freedom Coalition of Florida
Served as Deputy Communications Director for Governor Jeb Bush; lead Communications Consultant for the 2008 "Yes4Marriage" Campaign 
Physician; Former Congressman; 2001 Sponsor of the Federal legislation to ban human cloning 
Note:  The signatories are all acting as individual citizens, and not as representatives of their respective organizations.  Organizational affiliations appear for identification purposes only.