

President Obama's failure on the economy has been so severe that it has overshadowed his manifold failures on foreign policy and national security. An inventory of his record shows that by nearly all measures, President Obama has diminished American influence abroad and compromised our interests and values. In no region of the world is the U.S. position stronger than it was four years ago. This memorandum explains ten of President Obama's broken promises and missteps on foreign policy and national security. It is a failed record that no amount of bluster in Charlotte can mask.
Today, Iran is on the cusp of nuclear weapons capability. Such a capability in the hands of the world's top terrorist sponsoring state poses the greatest threat facing the United States and our friends and allies, and it risks sparking a nuclear arms race across the Middle East.
Despite promising to "do everything in his power" to stop Iran, four years of President Obama's irresolute policies have failed to slow the progress of Iran's program. In fact, that progress has sped up:
The Iranian program has gotten to this point because President Obama has squandered all credibility with the ayatollahs:
In the face of such irresolution, the ayatollahs are pressing forward toward nuclear weapons capability without fear of repercussion because they do not believe we are serious.
The killing of Osama bin Laden was a landmark in the war on terror for which President Obama deserves credit. However, the President has made numerous unwise and seemingly politically motivated decisions in Afghanistan that have made it harder to complete our mission of transitioning to an Afghan Army that can defend Afghanistan on its own and ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a launching pad for terror like it was on 9/11.
President Obama has convinced all parties—both our partners and our enemies—that his objective is to leave Afghanistan by a date certain, regardless of the conditions on the ground. This message has led our Afghan and Pakistani partners to doubt our resolve and hedge their bets rather than fully cooperate with us. And this message has encouraged the Taliban to believe that they can wait us out.
President Obama's missteps include:
Amidst President Obama's mistakes, relations with our Afghan partners as well as with Pakistani authorities have frayed.  Relations between President Obama and President Karzai are strained, leading the Afghan president to frequently criticize the American troop presence. A senior Obama Administration official recently called the U.S.-Pakistani relationship—which has always been complicated—"the worst it has ever been." 
 A number of factors contribute to this state of affairs, but the chief factor is the lack of resolute leadership from President Obama.
The Obama White House has released a torrent of leaks of classified counterterror information that has compromised our national security by revealing covert sources and methods. The pace of the leaks quickened as the November election drew nearer, raising the question of whether they were politically motivated. But whether the leaks were politically motivated and intentional or the result of bad management and sloppiness in neither here nor there.  Either case is unacceptable and injurious to the intelligence operatives and uniformed men and women in the field.
Criticism of the leaks has been bipartisan:
Despite the damage done, President Obama has refused to support the appointment of a special counsel to investigate these leaks and hold those responsible accountable. The special counsel mechanism is designed for just such circumstances where the impartiality of normal prosecutors may be compromised because someone in the high chain of command in the White House may be implicated.
The damaging leaks include:
Over his term in office, President Obama has proposed and instituted massive cuts to the defense budget driven by a desire to protect domestic spending rather than any conception of the national security strategy.
This is a president who has exploded our federal budget and national debt to unprecedented levels. And the only program he is all too willing to cut is our military. His policy of unilateral disarmament has sent a message of weakness abroad, leads our friends to question our staying power, and emboldens our adversaries.
Despite promising as a candidate to advance the Peace Process, President Obama's actions have halted the Peace Process and greatly damaged the cherished relationship between the United States and Israel.  High-level talks have not been held since late 2010.
In his first year in office, President Obama explicitly stated he would seek to put "daylight" between the United States and Israel in order to earn more "credibility with the Arab states."
 He has implemented that strategy by:
This strategy of distancing the United States from Israel has utterly failed.  First, on its own terms, it failed to gain the credibility with Arab states Obama sought as polls indicate that the people of major Arab states such as Egypt and Jordan hold lower opinions of the United States now than at the end of the Bush Administration.
 More broadly, it has damaged our credibility not just with our ally Israel, but with other partners that now question whether the United States will stand with them in the future.
President Obama has implemented no coherent policy to shape events in this vital region, wasting over a year and a half as the situation has grown worse and options are being foreclosed. Some 20,000 people have been killed, the region is in turmoil, malign powers and actors have greater influence over the situation than the United States does, and Syria's stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons are at risk of falling into the wrong hands.
President Obama's policy has been marked by confusion, delay, and paralysis. At the start of the uprising as civilians were being killed, the Obama Administration called Bashar al-Assad a "reformer" and then waited months before acknowledging that he had to go. President Obama then outsourced U.S. policy to the United Nations, where Russia thwarted numerous Security Council resolutions on Syria.  Further, he deferred to a U.N. transition process that not only failed but also served to grant Assad more time to slaughter his own people.
In the meantime, Russia and Iran have funneled arms and assistance to the Assad regime while Al Qaeda and other extremist actors filled the vacuum left by President Obama's refusal to forthrightly lead an effort to identify, organize, and arm the responsible members of the opposition.
Criticism of Obama's Syria policy does not only come from Republicans, but from within President Obama's own party:
When America doesn't lead, instability and danger grow. That is a bipartisan consensus on Syria, and President Obama is out of step with it.
Mere months after Russia invaded its neighbor Georgia, the Obama Administration came into office vowing to "reset" relations with Russia, saying it would lead to more cooperation on Iran, North Korea, and Afghanistan. That reset has garnered little improvement in our relationship with Russia and no new meaningful cooperation.
Among President Obama's concessions to Russia were:
In return for these concessions, Russia has given little save for obstruction at the U.N., support for rogue regimes, and bellicose behavior.
President Obama has diminished respect for the United States in Latin America and the Caribbean. He has put strain on relationships with friendly nations while appeasing or downplaying the threat from those leaders who oppose our interests.
President Obama has sat on the sidelines while our major trading competitors have moved aggressively to negotiate new trade agreements. This will greatly compromise our economy for the future.
The last trade agreement signed by the United States—the South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement—was negotiated by President Bush and signed in 2007. Since then, Chinese and EU leaders have signed or are in negotiations for 46 different trade agreements. The European Union has successfully signed agreements with nine countries and pursued negotiations with eighteen others.
 China, for its part, has signed agreements with four countries and pursued negotiations with fifteen others.
 In August 2011, a group of Asian nations – including many with whom President Obama has stalled progress on trade – announced their goal to create an economic bloc that would include China but not the United States.
How many trade agreements has Obama signed? Zero. 
How many trade agreement negotiations has he initiated? Zero, again.
And the three trade agreements he submitted to Congress for approval were all initially negotiated and signed by President Bush. He waited three years before submitting those agreements for approval for fear of angering union bosses, leaving our partners South Korea, Colombia, and Panama twisting in the trade winds.
President Obama spins the withdrawal of troops from Iraq at the end of 2011 as a supposed "promise kept." But in truth he is masking a failure to reach a Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) that was the centerpiece of the administration's policy of moving to a smaller training and advisory force that would have solidified progress in Iraq:
But despite the clear need for a SOFA, President Obama fumbled the negotiation. When a recommendation for an anemic transition force of only a few thousand was leaked, it undermined negotiations by signaling to members of the Iraqi legislature that the United States was not serious about an adequate presence in Iraq to complete the transition. That took away any incentive for Iraqi legislators to take a political risk and vote in favor a new SOFA. President Obama did little to persuade them otherwise.
 And it seems the Obama Administration resisted feasible methods to work around the troop immunity issue.
The day after the abrupt withdrawal of U.S. troops, Iraq's Prime Minister took worrying actions to consolidate power. He leveled terrorism charges against the Sunni Vice President, causing the Vice President to flee the capital and sparking a political crisis that continues to this day. Iraq still faces worrying insurgent attacks. And the encroachment of Iranian influence in Iraq is a threat to our interests in the region.
America has little leverage to pushback on these counterproductive developments due to President Obama's failures. We have no military training presence to work closely and influence the Iraqi authorities. And we have no authoritative diplomatic voice with the mandate of the President since President Obama has failed to install a new U.S. ambassador in Baghdad since the last ambassador left in June.
Iraq is a nation in the heart of a strategically vital region where we spent much precious blood and treasure to protect our security and ensure liberty. But President Obama has irresponsibly vacated the field. As a result, there are deep concerns that the gains so dearly won by our uniformed men and women will be lost.
 Bipartisan Policy Center Reports: Feb. 2012 & Nov. 2011 & Aug. 2012
 Bipartisan Policy Center Reports: Feb. 2012 & Nov. 2011 & Aug. 2012
 Bipartisan Policy Center Reports: Feb. 2012 & Nov. 2011 & Aug. 2012
 Letter from Secretary Timothy Geithner to Senator Carl Levin, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, 12/11/11 (

Letter%20on%20S.%201867%20Defense%20Auth%20bill.pdf).
 Annie Lowrey and David E. Sanger, "U.S. Bets New Oil Sanctions Will Change Iran's Tune," The New York Times, 6/30/12.
 Scott Wilson, "In Meeting, Obama To Warn Netanyahu Against Military Strikes On Iran," The Washington Post, 3/2/12.
 Gen. David Petraeus, Testimony Before The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, 6/23/11.
 Adm. Mike Mullen, Testimony Before The House Armed Services Committee Hearing On Afghanistan Troop Withdrawals, 6/23/11.
 Sebastian Abbot and Rebecca Santana, "U.S.-Pakistan Relation At Dangerous Low," Huffington Post, 06/09/12.
 Josh Gerstein, "Brennan: Leaks Have Been 'Devastating...Unconscionable,'" Politico, 8/8/12.
 U.S. House of Representatives Permanent Committee on Intelligence, "Feinstein, Chambliss, Rogers, Ruppersberger Deplore Leaks Of Classified National Security Information," Press Release, 6/6/12.
 "Panetta Details Impact Of Potentially "Devastating" Defense Cuts," CNN, 11/14/11.
 Adam Entous, "Top Military Officer: U.S. Can Stay Global Power Despite Threatened Cuts," Wall Street Journal, 3/28/12.
 Scott Wilson, "Where Obama Failed On Forging Peace In The Middle East," The Washington Post, 7/14/12.
 Natasha Mozgovaya, "Abbas Vents Frustration At Obama Peace-Making Efforts," Haaretz, 4/26/11.
 Yann Le Guernigou, "Sarkozy Tells Obama Netanyahu Is A 'Liar,'" Reuters, 11/8/11.
 Josh Rogin, "5 Coming Battles Over The 2013 International Affairs Budget," The Cable, Foreign Policy, 2/13/12.
 Zogby International, "Arab Attitudes, 2011," Arab American Institute Foundation, 2011.
 Josh Rogin, "Kerry: Time To Consider Safe Zones And Arming The Opposition In Syria," The Cable, Foreign Policy, 5/8/12.
 Nicholas D. Kristof, "Obama AWOL In Syria," The New York Times, 8/8/10.
 Anne-Marie Slaughter, "We Will Pay A High Price If We Do Not Arm Syria's Rebels," Financial Times, 7/31/12.
 Robert G. Joseph, "Second to One," National Review, 10/17/11.
 Elisabeth Bumiller, "Kyrgyzstan Wants Military Role to End at U.S. Base," The New York Times, 3/13/12.
 "Overview of FTA and Other Trade Negotiations: FTA Negotiations," EU Trade European Commission, 7/25/12.
 "Free Trade Agreements," China FTA Network, Accessed 9/5/12.
 U.S. Department of Defense Press Release, Remarks by Sec. Gates to the American Enterprise Institute, 5/24/2011; Elizabeth Bumiller, "Panetta Presses Iraq for Decision on Troops," New York Times, 7/11/2011.
 Eric Schmitt and Steven Lee Myers, "Plan Would Keep Some Troops In Iraq," The New York Times, 9/7/11.
 Elizabeth Bumiller, "Panetta Presses Iraq for Decision on Troops," New York Times, 7/11/2011
 Jane Arraf, "Iraq Signals Willingness to Allow Some U.S. Forces to Stay," Christian Science Monitor, 8/3/11; Josh Rogin, "How The Obama Administration Bungled The Iraq Withdrawal Negotiations," The Cable, Foreign Policy, 10/21/11.
 Ken Pollack, "With A Whimper, Not A Bang," Brookings Institution Web Site, 10/21/11.
 Josh Rogin, "How The Obama Administration Bungled The Iraq Withdrawal Negotiations," The Cable, Foreign Policy, 10/21/11.