"Candidate Obama promised to 'change America' for the middle class by adopting a 'different measure' of progress. But instead of delivering more jobs and higher incomes, President Obama's policies have left the middle class in worse shape than when he took office, with chronic unemployment, skyrocketing gas prices, and poverty on track to hit fifty-year highs. As president, Mitt Romney will actually deliver for the middle class by helping create 12 million new jobs and a more prosperous future for the next generation." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "Well it's time for them to own their failure. It's time for us to change America. You see, we Democrats have a very different measure of what constitutes progress in this country." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)
 OBAMA: "We measure progress by how many people can find a job that pays the mortgage; whether you can put a little extra money away at the end of each month so you can someday watch your child receive her college diploma." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 8/26/12)
 "The average duration of unemployment increased to a record 41 weeks in November and remains at 39 weeks, Labor Department data show. Almost 5.2 million Americans have been out of work for at least six months." (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," 
, 8/23/12)
 (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," 
, 8/23/12)
 "The unemployment rate will stay above 8 percent for the rest of the year, CBO estimates, and the rate of inflation in consumer prices will remain low." ("An Update To The Budget And Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2012 To 2022," 
, 8/22/12)
 (Catherine Rampell, "Big Income Losses For Those Near Retirement," 
, 8/23/12)
 "Their downbeat take on their economic situation comes at the end of a decade in which, for the first time since the end of World War II, mean family incomes declined for Americans in all income tiers. But the middle-income tier—defined in this Pew Research analysis as all adults whose annual household income is two-thirds to double the national median —is the only one that also shrunk in size, a trend that has continued over the past four decades." ("The Lost Decade Of The Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," 
, 7/22/12)
 "About 97.3 million Americans fall into a low-income category, commonly defined as those earning between 100 and 199 percent of the poverty level, based on a new supplemental measure by the Census Bureau that is designed to provide a fuller picture of poverty. Together with the 49.1 million who fall below the poverty line and are counted as poor, they number 146.4 million, or 48 percent of the U.S. population." (Hope Yen, "Census Shows 1 In 2 People Are Poor Or Low-Income," 
, 12/15/11)