"It was just eight years ago Barack Obama's keynote address promised 'a politics of hope' and a rejection of those 'who are preparing to divide us.' But that Barack Obama is nowhere to be found now that Americans aren't better off, with stagnant unemployment, lower incomes, and a poverty rate on track to hit its highest rate since the 1960s. Americans deserve better from their president than divisive politics and misleading attacks." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The speech, which will be given the opening night of the convention in Charlotte, will serve as a national introduction for Castro — much like it was for Obama in 2004. The then-Illinois senator delivered an iconic speech about his own backstory and called for national unity during the Boston convention that nominated John Kerry for President. Political observers have credited that address, which received rapturous reviews, for playing a major role in propelling Obama into the presidential mix in 2008." (Jonathan Lemire, "New Star Will Rise At Dems' Convention," 
, 7/31/12)
 "Castro said Tuesday that he hopes to invoke Obama's soaring, post-partisan rhetoric during his own speech. 'I remember watching his speech in 2004 and being inspired,' Castro said in a video released by convention organizers. 'When Obama talked about the audacity of hope, I thought back to my mother saying if you didn't like the way things were, you could dare to change them,' he said." (Jonathan Lemire, "New Star Will Rise At Dems' Convention," 
, 7/31/12)
 OBAMA: "Now even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us, the spin masters and negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes. Well, I say to them tonight, there's not a liberal America and a conservative America; there's the United States of America." (State Senator Barack Obama, 
, Boston, MA, 7/27/04)
 "But that was sooooo 2004. Specifically, that was so soooo Barack Obama in 2004, when the little-known state Senator from Illinois made these inspiring comments at the Democratic National Convention. Four years after that, Obama waged his juggernaut of a hope-and-change campaign. Now he heads up a seek-and-destroy effort. That means TV viewers in battleground states like Florida will face a lot more negative messaging from both sides than in 2008." (Marc Caputo, "Obama Borrows Campaign Tactics From Bush," 
 7/29/12)
 "If the outside world found that approach jarring, Obama didn't. In interviews with two dozen current and former Obama advisers, not one said he expressed reservations— at least in the beginning— about the "kill Romney" strategy, and he personally signed off on all of his campaign's paid advertising, although he often toned down the very harshest attacks." (Glenn Thrush, 
, 2012)
 (Dan Balz, "Roberts's Health-Care Ruling Sends A Message To Politicians," 
, 6/30/12)
 "Since 2000, the middle class has shrunk in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some—but by no means all—of its characteristic faith in the future." ("The Lost Decade Of The Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 "Although six in 10 jobs lost during the Great Recession paid mid-level wages, the majority of new jobs created in the recovery -- positions such as store clerks, laborers and home healthcare aides -- pay much less, according to a new study." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," 
, 8/31/12)
 "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," 
, 7/22/12)