As president, Mitt Romney will implement a strategy to get veterans working again, reform the VA system for the 21st century, and ensure that world-class VA health care is available to all veterans who need it.
Since 2008, veteran unemployment rates have been at unacceptable levels, the backlog for disability claims has doubled, and President Obama's devastating defense cuts threaten to strain the VA system even further by directly affecting VA funding and by shifting 200,000 troops out of service and into the VA system.  Mitt Romney believes we can do better for our veterans.
Mitt Romney will unleash the American economy to grow again and create well-paying jobs. He will cut taxes, lift job-killing regulations, and slash debt to encourage job creators to invest and grow their businesses. He will reverse President Obama's defense cuts that could force 200,000 troops out of the service. Veteran unemployment rates—particularly for returning veterans—are at unacceptable levels. It is vital that veterans aren't sent from the front lines to the unemployment lines.
Governor Romney will not allow an entire generation of veterans to lose faith in the VA. Because veterans strongly prefer to receive care within the VA system, focus will be directed towards improving and strengthening that system.
 
While growing the budget of every other federal agency, President Obama has saddled our military with devastating defense cuts that will total nearly a trillion dollars over the next ten years. Mitt Romney will reverse Obama-era defense cuts and prioritize preserving and protecting the proud Armed Forces that our veterans built. That means stopping cuts that could:
President Obama's first term was marked by significant cuts to our wartime military, but expansive growth to the rest of the government. Mitt Romney believes that keeping the American people safe from harm is our Republic's most sacred responsibility. Defense and veteran spending is less than 20% of federal spending, but has absorbed over 50% of deficit reduction efforts to date. Governor Romney will rebuild, revitalize, and restore a military that has been worn ragged by ten years of war and President Obama's devastating defense cuts. Mitt Romney will: