"The Obama Administration may want voters to believe that 'manufacturing is back' and the 'private sector is doing fine' – but middle-class families aren't buying it. President Obama's policies have resulted in a weakened manufacturing sector with fewer jobs for workers. As president, Mitt Romney will revive our manufacturing sector and help create good-paying jobs for struggling middle-class families." – Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "We've seen manufacturing start to come back to Ohio. We've seen the unemployment rate drop. So we've made progress. But we all know we've got so much more work to do." (President Obama, 
, Parma, OH, 7/5/12)
 BIDEN: "Ladies and gentlemen, I come here today with a very, very simple message:  Manufacturing is back.  Manufacturing is back." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Davenport, IA, 3/28/12)
 (
, 8/24/12)
 "Manufacturing, a key source of growth earlier in the recovery, has been showing signs of weakness. Factory activity shrank for the second straight month in July, according to a survey by the Institute for Supply Management, a trade group." (Christopher Rugaber, "Drop In Key US Durable Goods Orders Shows Weakness," 
, 8/24/12)
 "Signs that U.S. manufacturing is faltering emerged from a report Friday that orders for long-lasting factory goods, excluding the volatile transportation category, fell in July for the fourth time in five months." (Christopher Rugaber, "Drop In Key US Durable Goods Orders Shows Weakness," 
, 8/24/12)
 "The U.S. manufacturing sector remained in a weakened state in July, according to the closely followed ISM index. The index was basically unchanged last month, edging up to 49.8% from 49.7% in June, the Institute for Supply Management said Wednesday. Readings below 50% indicates more manufacturers are contracting instead of expanding." (Jeffry Bartash, "U.S. ISM Survey Remains Below 50% In July," 
, 8/1/12)
 "The Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index stayed in negative territory in August, coming in at negative 7.1 vs. negative 12.9 in July, which marks the fourth consecutive negative reading. Economists polled by MarketWatch expected a negative 5.0 reading." ("Aug. Philly Fed Negative For Fourth Month," 
, 8/16/12)
 "Growth in the U.S. manufacturing sector slowed in July to the second-weakest level since the country emerged from recession, according to a survey released Tuesday. The Markit flash U.S. manufacturing purchasing managers index dropped to 51.8 from 52.5 in June, which is the worst level since December 2010 and second-worst since late 2009. Any readings above 50 indicate an improvement from the prior month." (Steve Goldstein, "U.S. Manufacturing Growth 2nd-Worst Post-Recession," 
, 7/24/12)
 "Manufacturing will likely stay weak for the next few months. The ISM's gauge of new orders, a measure of future activity, plunged from 60.1 to 47.8. That's the first time it has fallen below 50 since April 2009, when the economy was still in recession." (Christopher S. Rugaber,  "US Manufacturing Shrinks For First Time In 3 Years," 
, 7/2/12)