"In 2008, Candidate Obama promised to abandon the 'political nonsense' used to divide Americans. But nearly four years later, it's clear President Obama hasn't lived up to his promise. Millions of Americans are struggling to find work and make ends meet in the Obama economy – and the President's only solution is to distract voters from his inability to get things done. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will finally change Washington and deliver real results to help middle-class families" – Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 OBAMA: "We don't have the luxury of relying on the same political nonsense, the same flash and burn tactics used every election to divide us, to make us afraid of one another. We can't afford it." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Fort Collins, CO, 10/26/08)
 (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Fort Collins, CO, 10/26/08)
 CORDES: "But why not send a message to the top Super PAC that's supporting you and say I think an ad like that is out of bounds? That we shouldn't be suggesting--" OBAMA: "So let's take that particular issue as opposed to, you know, because you lumped in a whole bunch of other stuff that I think was entirely legitimate. I don't think that Governor Romney is somehow responsible for the death of the woman that was portrayed in that ad. But keep in mind, this is an ad I didn't approve, I did not produce, and as far as I can tell, [had] barely run. I think it ran once." (President Barack Obama, Press Conference, 8/20/12)
 "Obama campaign officials have refused to disavow the ad, claiming independence from the outside group and no knowledge of the woman's story." (Steve Portnoy, "'Disgusting' Pro-Obama Ad Criticized By Democrat," 
, 8/9/12)
 "But that was sooooo 2004. Specifically, that was so soooo Barack Obama in 2004, when the little-known state Senator from Illinois made these inspiring comments at the Democratic National Convention. Four years after that, Obama waged his juggernaut of a hope-and-change campaign. Now he heads up a seek-and-destroy effort. That means TV viewers in battleground states like Florida will face a lot more negative messaging from both sides than in 2008." (Marc Caputo, "Obama Borrows Campaign Tactics From Bush," 
 7/29/12)
 (
, 8/9/11)
 "To win a second term, the Democrat who once pledged to usher in a more civilized political era has turned to highly critical commercials – at turns personal and snarky – to go toe to toe with Romney in a campaign noteworthy for its negativity and intensity." (Beth Fouhy, "Obama Negative Ads Could Hurt Personal Popularity," 
 7/24/12)
 "Candidate Barack Obama promised to transcend Washington partisanship. President Obama plummeted into it. As the House returns Tuesday for the final session of his first term, Obama's failure to fulfill this central claim of his 2008 campaign has never been more glaringly obvious." (Carrie Budoff Brown and Jonathan Allen, "Partisan D.C.: Obama's Broken Promise," 
, 1/17/12)
 (Dan Balz, "Roberts's Health-Care Ruling Sends A Message To Politicians," 
, 6/30/12)
 (
, Accessed 8/25/12)
 (Catherine Rampell, "Big Income Losses For Those Near Retirement," 
, 8/23/12)
 "More than in any other post-World War II recovery, people who have jobs are hurting, too: Their paychecks have fallen behind inflation." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," 
, 8/15/12)
 PELLEY: "This is worst economic recovery America has ever had. We've been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes. Ben Bernanke said any improvement in unemployment will 'likely be frustratingly slow.' Well, yes, to say the least." (CBS's "
," 7/17/12)