"President Obama concedes that 'we aren't where we need to be.' Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan agree. The American people know they aren't better off than they were four years ago. President Obama has added trillions to our national debt, blocked domestic energy production, and presided over the highest chronic unemployment in recorded history. He promised to change how Washington works, but he admits the nation's capital is as broken as ever. He raided Medicare to pay for Obamacare and is proposing massive tax increases that will kill jobs and hurt our economy. Too many middle-class families are going to sleep each night worried about the future. This may be the best President Obama can do, but it's not the best America can do. The Romney-Ryan plan for a stronger middle class will jump start our economy and create 12 million new jobs – and most importantly, give Americans hope for a better future." – Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 CNN's WOLF BLITZER: "When we spoke here end of 2008, 'hope and change.' You know what I see in Washington still to this day? OBAMA: "More of the same." BLITZER: "The same old same old." OBAMA: "Yeah." BLITZER: "A lot of bickering, backstabbing." OBAMA: "Maybe a little worse." (CNN's "
," 8/16/11)
 (Dan Balz, "Roberts's Health-Care Ruling Sends A Message To Politicians," 
, 6/30/12)
 "One omission in the Obama campaign's pitch is his unfulfilled promise to change Washington and act as a uniter. During Mr. Obama's term, the capital has often been mired in gridlock and consumed by bitter fights between the parties over the budget and related issues. Those clashes will continue this year," (Carol E. Lee, "Obama Criticizes GOP In Message To Iowans," 
, 1/4/12)
 (
, Accessed 8/25/12)
 (Catherine Rampell, "Big Income Losses For Those Near Retirement," 
, 8/23/12)
 (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Unemployment Rates Rise In 44 States In July," 
, 8/17/12)
 PELLEY: "This is worst economic recovery America has ever had. We've been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes. Ben Bernanke said any improvement in unemployment will 'likely be frustratingly slow.' Well, yes, to say the least." (CBS's "
," 7/17/12)
 (
, Accessed 8/25/12)
 (Congressional Budget Office, 
, 7/24/12)
 (
, Accessed 8/25/12)
 "Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," 
, 7/17/12)
 "New research, released today by the National Federation of Independent Business, shows that allowing tax relief on the top individual rates to expire will hurt job creation and the economy. The report, published by top accounting firm Ernst & Young, shows raising top individual rates would hurt small-business job creators in particular." (NFIB, 
, 7/17/12)