"Four years ago today, Candidate Obama promised an economy that would finally work for the middle class. But after nearly four years in office, President Obama still hasn't delivered and middle-class families are struggling with fewer jobs, lower incomes, higher poverty, and skyrocketing costs. The President's policies have disappointed those who needed him most. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan are offering a very different vision and a better future with 12 million new jobs and more take-home pay." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "But the other thing I've learned as I've traveled across the country is, is that that American dream feels like it's slipping away. You know? We are at a tough time right now in this his country, and I don't have to tell people here. You know, we have seen an economy that is not working for ordinary people." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Billings, MT, 8/27/08)
 OBAMA: "Manufacturing keeps shutting down. We have record number of home foreclosures, the most since any time since the Great Depression. Family bankruptcies. People not being able to pay for health care. People not being able to fill up their gas tanks. Seniors who try to figure out how they're going to pay their home heating this winter. Young people having the grades to go to college but not having the money." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Billings, MT, 8/27/08)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 8/26/12)
 (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," 
, 8/23/12)
 "The unemployment rate will stay above 8 percent for the rest of the year, CBO estimates, and the rate of inflation in consumer prices will remain low." ("An Update To The Budget And Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2012 To 2022," 
, 8/22/12)
 "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," 
, 7/22/12)
 "'Almost every group is worse off than it was three years ago, and some groups had very large declines in income,' Green, who previously directed work on the Census Bureau's income and poverty statistics program, said in a phone interview today. 'We're in an unprecedented period of economic stagnation.'" (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," 
, 8/23/12)
 "Their downbeat take on their economic situation comes at the end of a decade in which, for the first time since the end of World War II, mean family incomes declined for Americans in all income tiers. But the middle-income tier—defined in this Pew Research analysis as all adults whose annual household income is two-thirds to double the national median —is the only one that also shrunk in size, a trend that has continued over the past four decades." ("The Lost Decade Of The Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 (
, 8/21/12)
 (
, 2011)
 ("Trends In College Pricing 2009," College Board, 2008; "Trends In College Pricing 2011," 
, 2011)
 (
, 8/12/12)
 "CoreLogic (NYSE: CLGX), a leading provider of information, analytics and business services, today released new data showing that 11.4 million, or 23.7 percent, of all residential properties with a mortgage were in negative equity at the end of the first quarter of 2012." (CoreLogic, "CoreLogic Reports Negative Equity Decreases In First Quarter Of 2012," 
, 7/12/12)