"In 2008, Candidate Obama promised Sioux City voters he wouldn't resort to the 'politics of smear and slash and burn' – but that's exactly what they've seen from President Obama. Instead of delivering hope and change, the President has resorted to divisive attacks to distract voters from the problems facing middle-class families. As president, Mitt Romney will bring new leadership to Washington and focus on creating 12 million new jobs and higher take-home pay for American workers." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "Then they said, well, you know what he can't run a positive campaign all the time, he's going to have to go negative. When we were down 20 points in the middle of the summer, all the pundits were saying he's going to lose unless he really goes negative. He's got to kneecap the frontrunner, he's got to do a Tanya Harding on her." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Sioux City, IA, 1/1/08)
 (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Sioux City, IA, 1/1/08)
 "But that was sooooo 2004. Specifically, that was so soooo Barack Obama in 2004, when the little-known state Senator from Illinois made these inspiring comments at the Democratic National Convention. Four years after that, Obama waged his juggernaut of a hope-and-change campaign. Now he heads up a seek-and-destroy effort. That means TV viewers in battleground states like Florida will face a lot more negative messaging from both sides than in 2008." (Marc Caputo, "Obama Borrows Campaign Tactics From Bush," 
 7/29/12)
 "If the outside world found that approach jarring, Obama didn't. In interviews with two dozen current and former Obama advisers, not one said he expressed reservations— at least in the beginning— about the "kill Romney" strategy, and he personally signed off on all of his campaign's paid advertising, although he often toned down the very harshest attacks." (Glenn Thrush, 
, 2012)
 "In a move that will make some Democrats shudder, Obama's high command has even studied former President George W. Bush's 2004 takedown of Sen. John Kerry, a senior campaign adviser told POLITICO, for clues on how a president with middling approval ratings can defeat a challenger. 'Unless things change and Obama can run on accomplishments, he will have to kill Romney,' said a prominent Democratic strategist aligned with the White House." (Ben Smith and Jonathan Martin, "Obama Plan: Destroy Romney," 
, 8/9/11)
 (Dan Balz, "Roberts's Health-Care Ruling Sends A Message To Politicians," 
, 6/30/12)
 "Since 2000, the middle class has shrunk in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some—but by no means all—of its characteristic faith in the future." ("The Lost Decade Of The Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 "Although six in 10 jobs lost during the Great Recession paid mid-level wages, the majority of new jobs created in the recovery -- positions such as store clerks, laborers and home healthcare aides -- pay much less, according to a new study." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," 
, 8/31/12)
 "Lower-paying jobs, with median hourly wages from $7.69 to $13.83, accounted for just 21% of the job losses during the recession. But they've made up about 58% of the job growth from the end of the recession in late 2009 through early 2012." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," 
, 8/31/12)
 "He may care, but he sure hasn't done much for them. New income data from the Census Bureau, tabulated by former Census income specialists at the nonpartisan economic consulting firm Sentier Research, reveal that the three-and-a-half years of the Obama Presidency have done enormous harm to middle-class households." (Editorial, "Negative $4,019," 
, 8/24/12)