THE PRESIDENT said:
"The Cabinet session this morning was devoted to consideration of Government expenditure for the next fiscal year. The members of the Cabinet had before them the compilation of the budget on a functional basis, as has been customary during the past 2 years.

Copies of the budget will be handed to you. You will note that the expenditures for the present fiscal year will be about $4,435 million as compared with $3,994 million in the last fiscal year and as compared with the appropriations of $4,119 million for the next fiscal year. These totals include only Post Office deficits, not the whole working expenditure of the Post Office Department.
"The budgets for all 3 years are greatly influenced by the increased expenditures for construction work in aid of unemployment, for relief to agriculture, and for increased services to veterans, but it will be seen that these increased expenditures are somewhat offset by reductions in other directions.
"The heading of public buildings and public works, amounting to $434 million for this fiscal year and estimated at more than $457 million for next year, includes highways but does not include construction expenditures of the Army and Navy for military purposes, or the Veterans' Bureau, or merchant marine through loans from the Shipping Board, or for aviation and park improvements and sundry other minor construction items. The total of all construction work including these items is now progressing at the rate of over $725 million per annum, being about $500 million per annum in excess of the rate of expenditure for construction previous to the depression.
"The expenditure shown as aids to agriculture of a total for this year of $341 million includes drought relief and Farm Board expenditures, together with other expenditures of the Department of Agriculture, but does not include highway construction.
"The expenditure on veterans' relief shows an increase of about $190 million for the present fiscal year but includes $112 million of the normal payment into the bonus fund for the next fiscal year which was advanced by Congress to the present fiscal year.
"This statement of the budget does not include loans upon the bonus except so far as they are represented in the annual payment into the bonus fund, of about $112 million. But loans on the bonus certificates necessarily affect the Treasury finance. General [Frank T.] Hines, Administrator of Veterans' Affairs, informs me that the new loans made under the recent law together with those already outstanding under previous law, amount to about $912 million. In addition to these amounts applications are at hand amounting to about $140 million more, making a total of expenditure already in sight of about $1,050 million."