"Mitt Romney has offered a bold plan to rebuild America and create a stronger middle class. By cutting taxes across the board and removing burdensome regulations, the Romney plan will jumpstart our economy and help create 12 million new jobs and higher take-home pay for American workers. After nearly four years of disappointment and decline, middle-class families simply can't afford another four years under President Obama." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "I will lower taxes to lighten the burden on middle-income Americans and to reignite the economy. A key measure will be an across-the-board, 20% reduction in marginal individual income tax rates. By reducing the tax on the next dollar of income earned by all taxpayers, we will encourage hard work and productivity by allowing Americans to keep more of what they earn. ... I will reduce the corporate tax rate to 25%. Currently, it's among the highest in the developed world; I will bring it in line with other nations, making America a place where investment capital flows." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Restoring The American Promise," 
, 3/5/12)
 "Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, has proposed a 'regulatory cap' on federal agencies that requires them to calculate the cost of new rules and offset that cost with reductions to existing rules." (Jason Noble, "Candidates Emphasize Cutting Taxes, Rules," 
, 11/19/11)
 "I also will partner closely with our neighbors. Canada and Mexico have extraordinary resources of their own that can provide secure, reliable supplies for our economy. This starts with my approval of the Keystone XL pipeline on Day One."  (Mitt Romney, "U.S. Can Be Energy Superpower," 
, 3/5/12)
 "When bolstered by sound trade, education, energy and monetary policy, the Romney reform program is expected by the governor's economic advisers to increase GDP growth by between 0.5% and 1% per year over the next decade. It should also speed up the current recovery, enabling the private sector to create 200,000 to 300,000 jobs per month, or about 12 million new jobs in a Romney first term, and millions more after that due to the plan's long-run growth effects." (Glenn Hubbard, Op-Ed, "The Romney Plan For Economic Recovery," 
, 8/1/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 8/26/12)
 "Since 2000, the middle class has shrunk in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some—but by no means all—of its characteristic faith in the future." ("The Lost Decade Of The Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 "'Almost every group is worse off than it was three years ago, and some groups had very large declines in income,' Green, who previously directed work on the Census Bureau's income and poverty statistics program, said in a phone interview today. 'We're in an unprecedented period of economic stagnation.'" (Jeff Kearn, "U.S. Incomes Fell More In Recovery, Sentier Says," 
, 8/23/12)
 "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," 
, 7/22/12)