"Millions of middle-class Americans are struggling to find work — but President Obama's policies have only made matters worse. In Ohio and around the nation, the President's energy policies have resulted in fewer jobs and higher costs at home. As president, Mitt Romney will reverse President Obama's disastrous energy policies and get to work creating more jobs and more take-home pay for middle-class Americans." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "So, if somebody wants to build a coal plant, they can — it's just that it will bankrupt them, because they are going to be charged a huge sum for all that greenhouse gas that's being emitted." (Sen. Barack Obama, 
 With 
's Editorial Board, 1/17/08)
 (Joe Biden, 
, Maumee, OH, 9/16/08)
 "But in the past two years, an increasing number of coal-powered electricity plants across the country have announced closures. Estimates vary, but banking and industry analysis firm Credit Suisse put expected and known closures for 2009-2012 at 111 plants, that's one-fifth of the nation's nearly 500 coal plants." (Lisa Desjardins, "The War Over Coal Is Personal," 
, 7/17/12)
 
 (Editorial, "Killing Coal," 
 4/5/12)
 "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" 
, 3/28/12)
 "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," 
, 7/7/11)
 "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. ('OhioAmerican'), a Subsidiary Of Murray Energy Corporation ('Murray Energy'), today announced the closure of its coal mining operations near Brilliant, Jefferson County, Ohio. Regulatory actions by President Barack Obama and his appointees and followers were cited as the entire reason." (Murray Energy, "OhioAmerican Energy, Inc. Coal Mining Operation Closed In Eastern Ohio," 
, 7/31/12)
"The Ohio Valley Coal Company announced Friday it has been forced to reduce its workforce at the Powhatan No. 6 Mine in Belmont County, Ohio. According to a news release 29 hourly jobs will be cut. The company cites regulatory excess of the Obama Administration as a direct cause to the layoffs." (Colin Lawler, "Ohio Valley Coal Co. Announces Layoffs," 
, 7/21/12)
 "Electric utility FirstEnergy Corp., Toledo Edison's parent firm, said this week it will begin its planned downsizing of the Bay Shore plant in Oregon on Sept. 1 by permanently laying off workers. The number of workers to be laid off eventually will total 73." ("Layoffs To Begin Sept. 1 At Bay Shore Plant," 
, 7/20/12)
 "These plant closures will be a punch in the gut for communities already battling sour unemployment numbers. Three of the plants are in Cleveland, Eastlake and Ashtabula, which stand to lose millions in property taxes as well as many jobs." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," 
, 1/29/12)