 "Asked about the Priorities spot on MSNBC Wednesday morning, Robert Gibbs said he doesn't 'know the specifics" while Stephanie Cutter said on CNN: "I don't know the facts about when Mr. Soptic's wife got sick or the facts about his health insurance.' And Jen Psaki told reporters on Air Force One that "we don't' have any knowledge of the story of the family," according to Yahoo! News." (Reid J. Epstein, "Team Obama Denies Knowing Story Of Man In Its TV Ad, Call," 
, 8/8/12)
 "The Obama campaign is out with another ad making the false claim that Mitt Romney 'backed a bill that outlaws all abortion, even in cases of rape and incest.' Romney's consistent position through this campaign, and the last, and as far back as 2005, is that he opposes abortion except in cases when the life of the mother is in danger, and in cases of rape and incest." (Robert Farley, "Falsifying Romney's Abortion Stance, Again," 
, 7/31/12)
 "Obama accuses Romney in a series of TV ads of being a 'corporate raider' who 'shipped jobs to China and Mexico,' asking if voters want to elect an 'outsourcer in chief.' ... Bain Capital, the venture capital firm founded by Romney in 1984, is the focus of the Obama campaign's attacks." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
 "'President Obama's investments in clean energy — along with the loan guarantee program established under the Bush administration that Romney now attacks — have supported 200,000 jobs in the clean energy sector and have helped bring our dependence on foreign oil to a 16-year low,' [Lis Smith] said." (Ben German, "Obama Campaign Strikes Back At Romney On Green Energy," 
, 5/29/12)
 "President Barack Obama packed an upbeat job statistic for his visit to the Master Lock plant in Milwaukee. 'For the first time since 1990, American manufacturers are creating new jobs,' the president said on Feb. 15, 2012, as he praised Master Lock for bringing jobs back from China. 'American manufacturers are hiring for the first time since 1990,' Obama said in repeating the claim two days later at a Boeing plant in Washington state." (Dave Umhoefer, "President Barack Obama Says American Manufacturers Are Creating New Jobs For The First Time Since 1990," 
, 2/22/12)
 "The president's Labor Day speech in Detroit featured an assertion that contained a number of warning signs that it might be an errant fact: 'biggest middle-class tax cut in history.'" (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's Whopper Of A Claim On Tax Cuts," 
, 9/7/11)