"One year ago, the President's failure to rein in reckless government spending led to a downgrade in the creditworthiness of our nation.  President Obama's spending binge now has him on pace to add more than $1 trillion to the debt for the fourth straight year.  And it's the middle class that will pay most dearly for this out-of-control spending. The contrast between President Obama and me on this critical issue could not be more clear.  As Governor, I led Massachusetts to a credit upgrade. And as president, my Plan for a Stronger Middle Class will not only deliver more jobs and more take-home pay for American families, but it will also reduce spending to responsible levels.  I will lead us toward a balanced budget and restore the sterling credit rating our nation lost under President Obama." — Mitt Romney
 "S&P removed for the first time the triple-A rating the U.S. has held for 70 years, saying the budget deal recently brokered in Washington didn't do enough to address the gloomy outlook for America's finances. It downgraded long-term U.S. debt to AA+, a score that ranks below more than a dozen governments', including Liechtenstein's, and on par with Belgium's and New Zealand's. S&P also put the new grade on 'negative outlook,' meaning the U.S. has little chance of regaining the top rating in the near term." (Damian Paletta and Matt Phillips, "S&P Strips U.S. Of Top Credit Rating," 
, 8/6/11)
 "A cornerstone of the global financial system was shaken Friday when officials at ratings firm Standard & Poor's said U.S. Treasury debt no longer deserved to be considered among the safest investments in the world." (Damian Paletta and Matt Phillips, "S&P Strips U.S. Of Top Credit Rating," 
, 8/6/11)
 "The bitter negotiations damaged the standing of Washington leaders—including Obama—in the eyes of an anxious and frustrated public. Then a rating agency lowered the U.S. credit rating for the first time, an ignominious legacy for Obama." (George E. Condon Jr., "What a Week: Afghan Deaths, S&P, And Debt Limit Debate Challenge Obama," 
, 8/6/11)
"'Absolutely not.  And that will never happen to this country.  When people were most worried about the stability of the world, they still found safety in the Treasuries and the dollar,' he continued. 'That is a very, very important sign of basic confidence in our capacity as a country to work together to fix these problems.'" (Jake Tapper, "Geithner: U.S. Will Not Lose AAA Bond Rating," 
, 2/7/10)
 "Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner said there's no possibility the United States will lose its AAA bond rating. Despite warnings from independent bond raters over the country's unsustainable fiscal situation, Geithner told a House panel on Tuesday the bond rating is safe. 'There's not a chance that's going to happen to our country' Geithner said in response to a question from Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.)." (Walter Alarkon, "Sec. Geithner: 'Not A Chance' U.S. Will Lose AAA Bond Rating,"" 
, 3/16/10)
 QUESTION: "Is there is a risk that the United States could lose its AAA credit rating? Yes or no?" GEITHNER: "No risk of that." QUESTION: "No risk?" GEITHNER: "No risk..." (
, 4/19/11)
 (
, 8/4/12)
 "The latest budget figures from the White House predict this year's federal budget deficit will end up at $1.2 trillion. That would make the fourth consecutive year of trillion dollar-plus deficits during President Obama's administration." (Andrew Taylor, "Administration Projects $1.2T 2012 Budget Deficit," 
, 7/27/12)