Biden recognized what dozens of other Democrats knew at the time — welfare without work requirements just wasn't working. As president, Mitt Romney will immediately restore the bipartisan Clinton-era welfare reforms and get Americans back to work." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "'It should have been no surprise that taxpayers would become resentful of the way that we not so much spend on poverty in this country as much as we finance it,' Biden said. To alleviate that problem, in part, he called for changing welfare regulations to require all mothers, except those with 'very young' children, either to work or participate in some form of job training." (Robert Shogan, "Biden Would Ease 'Awesome Sinkhole' Of Child Poverty," 
, 5/23/87)
 BIDEN: "I introduced a concept of workfare in 1986. I remember being pilloried by my colleagues on the Democratic side at the time for suggesting that there by mandatory work requirements for anyone receiving welfare." (Sen. Joe Biden, U.S. Senate, 7/18/96)
 "Since 1987, when I first proposed an overhaul of the welfare system, I have argued that welfare recipients should be required to work. Nine long years later, I am pleased that it is finally going to happen. It has been a long road. I was criticized by many of my friends back then for even suggesting the idea of requiring work." ("Statement Of Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. On Passage Of Welfare Reform," Press Release, 8/1/96)
 ("Statement Of Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. On Passage Of Welfare Reform," Press Release, 8/1/96)
 (H.R. 3734, 
: Adopted 78-21: R 53-0; D 25-21, 8/1/96, Biden Voted Yea)
 KERRY: "I believe that is the most important debate that the country can have and take away from it any demagoguery or artificiality that is placed in front of us about welfare or stereotypes with respect to it. I believe it is an important change. Yes, people ought to work. Hard-working American citizens should not be required to carry people." (Senator John Kerry, Senate Floor Speech, 8/1/96)
 LEVIN: "The bill before us requires welfare recipients to work within 2 years of the receipt of benefits-2 years. The question is, why wait 2 years? Why should an able-bodied person receiving welfare benefits not be required to work for 2 years?" (Senator Carl Levin, Senate Floor Speech, 7/19/96)
 "Feingold said the legislation would offer states the opportunity to develop approaches to help welfare recipients and their families to become economically self-sufficient. 'The current system is plagued by perverse incentives that discourage work,' he said. 'Reforming such a complex system requires taking some risks, and this bill, any welfare reform measure, entails some risks. However, some assumption of risk is necessary to change the status quo.'" (Frank A. Aukofer, "Senate Passes Welfare Bill," 
 7/24/96)
 LIEBERMAN: "First and foremost, it eliminates the possibility of receiving public assistance without any intention of making some kind of a contribution to society in return. Beneficiaries will be aware that from the day they receive their first check, the clock will be ticking. Society is fulfilling an obligations to help them get back on their feet, and they in turn are obligated to make every effort to receive job training or education and to find employment." (Congressional Record, 8/1/96)
 (H.R. 3734, 
: Adopted 78-21: R 53-0; D 25-21, 8/1/96, Kerry Voted Yea, Levin Voted Yea, Feingold Voted Yea, And Lieberman Voted Yea)
 "The Obama administration has quietly opened the door for states to seek major changes in how they meet federal welfare-to-work requirements for some of their poorest residents, and leading conservatives are crying foul." ("Obama Administration Opens The Door For States To Seek Major Changes In Welfare-To-Work Law," 
, 7/13/12)
 "The Obama administration claims authority to overhaul every aspect of the TANF work provisions (section 407), including 'definitions of work activities and engagement, specified limitations, verification procedures and the calculation of participation rates' — in other words, the whole work program. Sebelius's HHS bureaucracy declared the existing TANF law a blank slate on which it can write any policy it chooses." (Robert Rector, "Obama's Attack On 'Workfare'," 
, 8/8/12)
 "Democrats and Republicans alike should be distressed by President Barack Obama's disregard for constitutional limits on his authority. The president's flouting of the separation of powers risks turning this country into something other than a representative democracy. Congress should move in a bipartisan rebuke of Obama's overreach before he neuters that institution. In a blatant challenge to the legislative branch, Obama by executive order tossed out the Clinton-era welfare reform that required able-bodied aid recipients to work, saying the federal government will no longer enforce the law." (Editorial, "Obama's Power Grab Flouts Constitution," 
, 8/6/12)
 (Editorial, "Obama Unilaterally Unreforms Welfare," 
, 7/14/12)