"With unemployment at a five-month high and economic growth stalling, President Obama is nowhere to be found. He hasn't met with his jobs council in six months and has ducked tough questions from the White House press corps. In these times of economic uncertainty, middle-class Americans deserve a president willing to provide honest answers to their questions." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (
, Los Cabos, Mexico, 6/19/12)
 REPORTER: "So there's no reason they [the Jobs Council] haven't met publicly?" JAY CARNEY: "No, there's no specific reason except the President's obviously got a lot on his plate." (
, Washington, D.C., 7/18/12)
 Since June 19, President Obama has attended 34 campaign fundraisers. (National Journal's "Daybook," 8/6/12)
 "Unemployment rose to 8.3 percent. Uneven hiring may hold back consumer spending, the biggest part of the economy, as a global slowdown and impending U.S. tax changes weigh on businesses. Job cuts at companies from Morgan Stanley (MS) to Cisco Systems (CSCO) Inc. mean unemployment may remain elevated, one reason the Federal Reserve this week said it is prepared to take new steps if needed to boost growth." (Shobhana Chandra, "U.S. Payrolls Rise More Than Forecast; Unemployment 8.3%," 
, 8/3/12)
 "U.S. economic growth pulled back further during the second quarter of the year as consumer spending slowed--a reading that suggests domestic fiscal worries may becoming a more significant drag." (Eric Morath and Sarah Portlock, "U.S. Growth Slows In 2nd Quarter," 
, 7/27/12)
 "White House chief of staff Jack Lew may have disregarded warnings from lower-level budget employees that the administration's efforts to prop up Solyndra were unwise and possibly illegal, The Washington Post is reporting based on an upcoming House Energy and Commerce Committee report. The Post's story says the report 'suggests' that Lew — in his previous role as director of the Office of Management and Budget — 'let the refinancing move forward without intervening, even though some OMB analysts thought a refinancing plan that favored private investors might violate the law.'" (Bob King, "Solyndra Report May Implicate Lew, Washington Post Writes," 
, 8/2/12)
 SENATOR DIANNE FEINSTEIN: "I am aware of that, I think that's a correct analysis. I think the White House has to understand that some of this is coming from its ranks. I don't know specifically where, but I think they have to begin to understand that and do something about it. I mean, there's one book they can read and they'll see it very clearly." (
, Washington, DC, 7/23/12)
 "Remember Jeff Neely, the government official photographed living it up in a hot tub at a Las Vegas conference? ... Mica's committee is now looking into wasteful spending at as many as 77 other General Services Administration (GSA) conferences -- all uncovered in documents obtained by Fox News.  The documents, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, show the extent to which GSA dumped money into questionable conferences, sometimes with little or no record of spending." (Doug McKelway, "Documents Show Dozens Of Questionable GSA Conferences, Millions In Bonuses," 
, 7/31/12)
 "According to some critics, a galling example of the Obama administration fostering overseas work came as part the 2009 stimulus program. They point to millions of dollars meant to develop a domestic clean-energy industry that instead landed in the hands of foreign businesses." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
 7/9/12)