"It's been two years since President Obama's so-called 'recovery summer' — but struggling middle-class Americans are still waiting for their recovery. Jobless claims are up, unemployment is at a five-month high, and Americans are suffering from the worst economic recovery the country has ever had. Mitt Romney has a plan that will strengthen our middle class and finally get Americans back to work." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 WALLACE: "But David, didn't this White House badly misjudge this recovery? I remember in 2010, two summers ago, you and Vice President Biden were running around talking about recovery summer. That was the summer of 2010. And the fact is that your White House said that if you got the stimulus—the $800 billion dollars—that unemployment would stay under 8 percent. In fact, with the stimulus, unemployment has stayed over 8 percent for the last 42 months. That's three and a half years." AXELROD: "Chris, first of all. I wasn't around saying anything other than that we were going to have to be persistent—that it took years to get in this mess, it was going to take years to get out." WALLACE: "You talked about 'Recovery Summer' in 2010, sir." AXELROD: "Well, you should show me the tape of me saying that." (FOX's "Fox News Sunday," 8/5/12)
 "David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, said: 'This summer will be the most active Recovery Act season yet, with thousands of highly-visible road, bridge, water and other infrastructure projects breaking ground across the country, giving the American people a first-hand look at the Recovery Act in their own backyards and making it crystal clear what the cost would have been of doing nothing.'" (Mike Allen, "Obama, Biden Declare 'Recovery Summer'," 
, 6/17/10)
 AXELROD: "The president has recommended the steps that he thinks Congress should take now. We also have more -- many of the Recovery Act projects around the country are taking hold this summer, by design. That will involve a lot of private industry construction, and so on." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 6/13/10)
 (Timothy F. Geithner, Op-Ed, "Welcome To The Recovery," 
, 8/2/10)
 "As the summer heats up, it is becoming clear that it could quite possibly be the most active season yet when it comes to recovering our economy.  There are Recovery Act-funded projects breaking ground across the country that are creating quality jobs for Americans and economic growth for businesses, large and small. This summer is sure to be a Summer of Economic Recovery." (Ron Sims, "A Summer Of Recovery," 
, 6/17/10)
 CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("
," 7/17/12)
 (Lucia Mutikani, "Jobs Increase In July, But Jobless Rate Rises To 8.3 Percent," 
, 8/3/12)
 "The unemployment rate ticked higher to 8.3% in July from 8.2% in the previous month. This is the highest rate since February." (Greg Robb, "Nonfarm Payroll Up 163,000 In July, Rate At 8.3%" 
 8/3/12)
 "The latest payroll numbers are encouraging after three months of weak job creation, but the figures still aren't enough to lower the unemployment rate, and hiring remains well below the pace set at the start of the year." (Jeffrey Sparshott and Tom Barkley, "Economy Adds 163,000 Jobs," 
, 8/3/12)