"President Obama's devastating defense cuts are set to have a massive impact on Fayetteville and the rest of North Carolina. Because of the President's lack of leadership, North Carolina could be hit hard with thousands of job losses and millions of dollars in lost economic activity. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will restore our military's strength and ensure our armed forces have the resources they need." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "An array of military programs, from fighter jets to retiree benefits, would be nicked to squeeze savings in the Pentagon's $525 billion budget for 2013, according to officials and documents released Monday. The proposed 2013 budget represents the Pentagon's first installment in a plan to reduce its projected spending by $487 billion over 10 years. Congress must approve the changes." (Tom Vanden Brook, "Pentagon Budget Calls For Cuts To Jets, Benefits," 
, 2/13/12)
 "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spelled out a doomsday scenario Monday that he said could occur if Congress fails to take action to avoid a $1 trillion cut in defense spending over the next decade. Panetta, responding to a letter from Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsay Graham, said cuts of nearly $100 billion a year would leave the United States with its smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest air force in its history." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," 
, 11/14/11)
 (Stephen S. Fuller, "The Economic Impact Of The Budget Control Act Of 2011 On DOD And Non-DOD Agencies," 
, 7/17/12)
 "Here in the military town home to Fort Bragg, long fighting off its nickname 'Fayette-nam,' the unemployment rate has soared above that in the rest of the country for years. And things could get much worse, military officials, contractors and voters here fear, if Congress doesn't work out a deal before Jan. 2, when $500 billion in automatic defense cuts will take effect." (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," 
, 8/18/12)
 "The military's financial fears are affecting companies across North Carolina whose cutting-edge products and technology often are aimed specifically at protecting fighting forces and making armies more powerful and self-sufficient. If their defense contracts evaporate as a result of a sweeping budget cut looming five months out, industry experts say thousands of jobs could be lost in the state along with important research and development." (Martha Quillin, "N.C. Businesses Sweat Looming Defense Cuts," 
, 8/10/12)
 "It's not like the local community can bare the cuts. Only 20 percent of the service members stationed at Fort Bragg actually live on the base — and foreclosure rates are already up 73 percent this year. Fayetteville also receives federal aid for its education system to subsidize the lack of schools on Fort Bragg and takes in money from veterans and service members studying on the GI Bill." (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," 
, 8/18/12)
 "'It's just putting a huge chill on business,' said Will Austin, director of government affairs for Lord Corp., a Cary-based company with 2,800 employees worldwide making adhesives, coatings, electronics and other items. Fifteen to 20 percent of the company's $789 million business last year was with the military. How much it will be this year or next remains to be seen." (Martha Quillin, "N.C. Businesses Sweat Looming Defense Cuts," 
, 8/10/12)
 "Democratic Rep. Mike McIntyre of Fayetteville is facing one of the toughest reelection battles of his 16-year career — and he's in the same spot. 'I did not vote for sequestration, and Congress must act to avoid sequestration,' he said. 'If not, there will be massive defense cuts that, as a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am gravely concerned.'" (Stephanie Gaskell, "Sequester Ground Zero: 'Fayette-Nam'," 
, 8/18/12)
 "In mid-2012, the House minority leader Nancy Pelosi, requested a sit-down to ask Obama to reconsider the billions of defense cuts that would kick in automatically as part of the 2011 budget deal. ... They were asking for an alternative state of cuts, or any kind of plan that would keep local employers – and, by implication, local contributors – happy." (Glenn Thrush, 
, 2012)
 "Obama told the former speaker what he had been saying for months – that he wasn't budging on the defense cuts. Doing so would surrender his only leverage in forcing House Republicans to accept the expiration of tax cuts for the wealthy – the only weapon he had against their efforts 'to delegitimize me,' as he put it. Moreover, he bluntly called on Hill Democrats to reorient their priorities – from them to him. 'Look, guys,' he told Pelosi, Harry Reid, and several other congressional leaders, according to a person briefed in detail on the interaction. 'I plan on winning this race. If I don't win, then anything we say now doesn't matter. I plan on winning this race. So let's figure out how to win this race.'" (Glenn Thrush, 
, 2012)