"The Obama campaign has a short memory when it comes to the disgraceful Obama Super PAC ad. After hosting a conference call and promoting the story on a campaign website, the Obama campaign now expects voters to believe they didn't know the facts. Americans deserve better than falsehoods and distortions – they deserve to know whether President Obama supports these despicable attacks." – Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 TAPPER: "When the pro-Obama super PAC, Priorities USA Action, that suggested that Mitt Romney was responsible in some way for a death of steelworker's wife, you said, quote, 'I don't know the facts about when this individual's wife got sick, or the facts about his health insurance,' but in actuality, you were on a conference call where that steelworker himself told his story. Can you explain why you said you didn't know about the facts of that situation?"  CUTTER: "Because I didn't. I didn't know the facts of when Mr. Soptic's wife got sick and I only recently learned them through all of the hysteria over that ad." (ABC's "This Week," 8/19/12)
 "But as my colleague Reid Epstein reported yesterday, Soptic appeared in an Obama campaign ad in May, and Cutter hosted an Obama campaign conference call around that time in which Soptic told reporters the same story as the one featured in the Priorities USA ad." (Dylan Byers, "'Morning Joe' Slams Obama Camp For 'Scam'," 
, 8/9/12)
 (Obama For America Website, 
, Accessed 8/19/12)
 "Bill Clinton made a pitch for the pro-President Obama super PAC Priorities USA Action at a private home in Manhattan last night, with a crowd that included White House senior adviser David Plouffe and Democratic donors. ... Plouffe also gave a presentation." (Maggie Haberman, "Clinton Pitches Obama, Clinton Donor Prospects For Super PAC," 
, 8/16/12)
 "President Obama's adviser David Plouffe appeared at a prospecting meeting for Priorities USA Action held at the Yale Club in Manhattan earlier today, speaking before a group of about two dozen major Democratic donors about the influence of outside groups on the GOP side, multiple sources said." (Maggie Haberman, "Plouffe Appears At Event For Pro-Obama Super PAC, Which Hires New Fundraiser," 
, 3/19/12)
 "In addition to Plouffe, Messina and senior campaign strategist David Axelrod have attended super PAC fundraisers, including events in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston and Washington, D.C." (Steven T. Dennis, "Cabinet Members A Super PAC No-Show," 
, 7/10/12)
 "'We have been crystal clear in expressing our support for Priorities USA Action and its mission: re-electing the President,' campaign spokesman Ben LaBolt said. 'Campaign and White House officials have participated in and will continue to participate in their events across the country.'" (Steven T. Dennis, "Cabinet Members A Super PAC No-Show," 
, 7/10/12)