"When President Obama claimed government helped build businesses, he must have been thinking about his failed attempt to prop up Solyndra. But after half a billion in wasted taxpayer dollars and nearly 2,000 unemployed workers, it's clear the only people who lost on President Obama's Solyndra gamble were American taxpayers. Mitt Romney understands hard work and entrepreneurship build businesses, not 'the bank of Washington.'" —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 KUMAR: "When Government Plays a Part, It can Bring the Private Sector Along: Solyndra has secured over large amounts in private capital which is a story in itself."  (Aditya Kumar, Director Of Special Projects In The Office Of Chief Of Staff Rahm Emanuel, 
, f. 230, 8/19/09)
 "Solyndra's CEO labeled President Barack Obama's administration 'The Bank of Washington.' ... 'The Bank of Washington continues to help us!" he wrote in the October 2009 e-mail, which sketched plans for Solyndra to exploit several additional federal programs and tax-incentives." (Neil Munro, "Obama's 'Bank Of Washington' Applauded By Solyndra CEO In Email," 
, 8/2/12)
 "Even so, senior officials in the White House's Office of Management and Budget did not discourage the Energy Department from proceeding with its plan to restructure a federal loan to Solyndra — a move that put private investors ahead of taxpayers for repayment if the company closed, the investigation by Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee found." (Joe Stephens and Carol D. Leonnig, "White House Analyst Warned Saving Solyndra Could Cost More Than Letting It Fail," 
, 8/1/12)
 "White House chief of staff Jack Lew may have disregarded warnings from lower-level budget employees that the administration's efforts to prop up Solyndra were unwise and possibly illegal, The Washington Post is reporting based on an upcoming House Energy and Commerce Committee report. The Post's story says the report 'suggests' that Lew — in his previous role as director of the Office of Management and Budget — 'let the refinancing move forward without intervening, even though some OMB analysts thought a refinancing plan that favored private investors might violate the law.'" (Bob King, "Solyndra Report May Implicate Lew, Washington Post Writes," 
, 8/2/12)
 "From the House report on Solyndra, an email from the deputy director of special projects in then-chief of staff Rahm Emanuel's office, indicating he wanted the president involved in the Solyndra project: ... 'Ron wants to have this move through the process and NOT be in a 'holding pattern'. He has talked to Rahm about this, and feels like Rahm wants this too (barring any concerns) -- POTUS involvement was Rahm's idea.'"  (Maggie Haberman, "Solyndra Report Email: 'POTUS Involvement Was Rahm's Idea'," 
, 8/2/12)
  "An elite Obama fundraiser hired to help oversee the administration's energy loan program pushed and prodded career Department of Energy officials to move faster in approving a loan guarantee for Solyndra, even as his wife's law firm was representing the California solar company, according to internal emails made public late Friday." (Matthew Mosk, "Obama Fundraiser Pushed Solyndra Deal From Inside," 
, 10/7/11)
 "Even so, senior officials in the White House's Office of Management and Budget did not discourage the Energy Department from proceeding with its plan to restructure a federal loan to Solyndra — a move that put private investors ahead of taxpayers for repayment if the company closed, the investigation by Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee found. The restructuring went forward, but within months Solyndra failed anyway, leaving federal taxpayers on the hook for much of the half-billion-dollar federal loan. Now, a year after the company's collapse, debate continues over whether the refinancing plan was legal or a wise investment. Last week, Solyndra's final liquidation plan estimated that the government will recover just $24 million of the $527 million that taxpayers lent to the company." (Joe Stephens and Carol Leonnig, "White House Analyst Warned Saving Solyndra Could Cost More Than Letting It Fail," 
, 8/1/12)
 "On the day it closed, Solyndra said it was laying off 1,100 full-time and temporary employees. But 1,861 workers lost their jobs as the solar panel manufacturer shut its doors, according to U.S. Labor Department documents provided to The Bay Citizen under the Freedom of Information Act." (Aaron Glantz, "Solyndra Layoffs Larger Than Previously Reported," 
, 6/13/12)