"For millions of middle-class families, Vice President Biden couldn't be more out of touch on the state of the economy. After claiming yesterday 'the middle class is coming back,' the Vice President is now claiming that 'Detroit is getting back up.' But after nearly four years, middle-class families are struggling with lower income, fewer jobs, and increasing unemployment. The Romney-Ryan plan will provide 12 million new jobs, higher take-home pay and a brighter future for the middle class." – Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "And guess what, Detroit is getting back up! Detroit is getting back up!" (Vice President Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Detroit, MI, 8/22/12)
 
 BIDEN: "Folks, the middle class is coming back, they have been ravaged. They have been ravaged. But they are starting to come back." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Minneapolis, MN, 8/21/12)
 OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan – and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, 
, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
 
 OBAMA: "The private sector is doing fine. Where we're seeing weaknesses in our economy have to do with state and local government – often times, cuts initiated by governors or mayors who are not getting the kind of help that they have in the past from the federal government..." (President Barack Obama, 
, Washington, DC, 6/8/12)
 PRESIDENT OBAMA: "The economy is growing stronger. The recovery is speeding up. And the last thing we can afford to do right now is to go back to the very policies that got us into this mess in the first place. We can't afford it." (President Barack Obama, 
, 2/13/12)
 PRESIDENT OBAMA: "Now, fortunately, we've seen some encouraging signs that a recovery is beginning to take hold.  An economy that had been shrinking for nearly a year is now growing." (President Barack Obama, 
, Winston-Salem, NC, 12/6/10)
 "As the summer heats up, it is becoming clear that it could quite possibly be the most active season yet when it comes to recovering our economy. ... This summer is sure to be a Summer of Economic Recovery." (Ron Sims, "A Summer Of Recovery," 
, 6/17/10)
 (
, Accessed 8/22/12)
 "Since 2000, the middle class has shrunk in size, fallen backward in income and wealth, and shed some—but by no means all—of its characteristic faith in the future." ("The Lost Decade of the Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 ("The Lost Decade of the Middle Class," 
, 8/22/12)
 (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
, 8/22/12)
 "Forty-four states recorded unemployment rate increases, two states and the District of Columbia posted rate decreases, and four states had no change, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today." (Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
, 8/17/12)
 "Yet real median household income in March was down $4,300 since Obama took office in January 2009 and down $2,900 since the June 2009 start of the economic recovery, according to an analysis of census data by Sentier Research, an economic- consulting firm in Annapolis, Maryland." (Mike Dorning, "Obama Fails To Stem Middle-Class Slide He Blamed On Bush," 
, 4/30/12)
 "The ranks of America's poor are on track to climb to levels unseen in nearly half a century, erasing gains from the war on poverty in the 1960s amid a weak economy and fraying government safety net." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty On Track To Rise To Highest Since 1960s," 
, 7/22/12)
 CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("
," 7/17/12)