"President Obama may believe his economic policies 'worked' — but today's disappointing employment report shows otherwise with unemployment on the rise in 44 out of 50 states. His policies have left the middle class struggling with higher unemployment, more debt, and smaller paychecks. As president, Mitt Romney will implement pro-growth policies that create 12 million new jobs and higher take-home pay for middle-class families." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (President Barack Obama, 
, Oakland, CA, 7/24/12)
 "Forty-four states recorded unemployment rate increases, two states and the District of Columbia posted rate decreases, and four states had no change, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today." (U.S. Bureau Of Labor Statistics, "Regional And State Employment And Unemployment -- July 2012," 
, 8/17/12)
 "On the whole, though, it's clear that views of the U.S. economy remain very dim and possibly getting dimmer." (Aaron Blake, "Swing State Voters Don't See U.S. Economy Rebounding," 
, 8/16/12)
 "The recession that ended three years ago this summer has been followed by the feeblest economic recovery since the Great Depression. Since World War II, 10 U.S. recessions have been followed by a recovery that lasted at least three years. An Associated Press analysis shows that by just about any measure, the one that began in June 2009 is the weakest. The ugliness goes well beyond unemployment, which at 8.3 percent is the highest this long after a recession ended." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," 
, 8/15/12)
 "More than in any other post-World War II recovery, people who have jobs are hurting, too: Their paychecks have fallen behind inflation." (Paul Wiseman, "Economic Recovery Is Weakest Since World War II," 
, 8/15/12)
 PELLEY: "This is worst economic recovery America has ever had. We've been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes. Ben Bernanke said any improvement in unemployment will 'likely be frustratingly slow.' Well, yes, to say the least." (CBS's "
," 7/17/12)