"After four years of trillion-dollar deficits and anemic economic growth, it's clear President Obama would love to run on President Clinton's record in office. But no amount of showmanship can paper over the differences between these two presidents. Americans deserve a president willing to run on his own record, not the record he wishes he had." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "Former President Bill Clinton is set to play a central part in the Democratic convention, aides said, and will formally place President Obama's name into nomination by delivering a prime-time speech designed to present a forceful economic argument for why Mr. Obama deserves to win a second term." (Jeff Zeleny, "Bill Clinton To Have Key Convention Role," 
, 7/29/12)
 ROSE: "You want to say to the voters if they are prepared to choose someone with less experience but perhaps other qualities -- as you've said, gifted in politics." CLINTON: "Very gifted." ROSE: "... intellect, then they are rolling the dice is what you are saying." CLINTON: "Well ..."  ROSE: "They are rolling the dice about America if they don't choose the person who has had the kind of experience you are talking about." CLINTON: "It's less predictable, isn't it? I mean, when is the last time we elected a president based on one year of service in the Senate before he started running, and he will have been a senator longer by the time he is inaugurated, but essentially once you start running for president full time, you don't have time to do much else." (PBS's "
," 12/15/07)
 "Former President Bill Clinton made an unusually direct attack Friday night on Senator Barack Obama, one of his wife's leading rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, suggesting that voters who would support someone with Mr. Obama's experience were willing to 'roll the dice' on the presidency."  (Patrick Healy, "Bill Clinton Says Obama Isn't Ready," 
, 12/16/07)
 "For the past two days, it's been the Democrats. In an interview with the Reno Gazette-Journal's editorial board on Monday, Democratic Sen. Barack Obama said that under Reagan the GOP was the 'party of ideas.' Of Reagan, he said he 'changed the trajectory of America in a way that Richard Nixon did not and in a way Bill Clinton did not.'" (Amy Chozick, "Obama, Clinton Battle Over Reagan," 
, 1/18/08)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 7/26/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 7/26/12)
 "The latest budget figures from the White House predict this year's federal budget deficit will end up at $1.2 trillion. That would make the fourth consecutive year of trillion dollar-plus deficits during President Obama's administration." (Andrew Taylor, "Administration Projects $1.2T 2012 Budget Deficit," 
, 7/27/12)