"When President Obama says his policies 'worked,' he must be talking about his plans to make the price of energy 'necessarily skyrocket.' For three and a half years, President Obama has presided over 'a hodgepodge' of energy policies that have increased prices and cost American jobs. On Day One, Mitt Romney will reverse the President's job-destroying policies and finally implement an all-of-the-above energy plan." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan — and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, 
, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
 OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, 
, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
 MSNBC's CHUCK TODD: "Very quickly, president's going down to Miami to give an energy speech. Nia, you've been with me, I feel like, on the front lines covering the president from the day he took office. There is no issue that has been a, I guess, a bigger bust for the president than energy policy in general. There's a lot of, we can come up with a lot of excuses as to why, but boy, it's just like you can't - he's made no progress." (MSNBC's 
 2/23/12)
 "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," 
, 4/20/12)
 (
, Accessed 7/29/12)
 "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" 
, 3/28/12)
 "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," 
, 7/7/11)