"President Obama's campaign may be eager to take credit for the missile defense program protecting Israel. But that hasn't stopped the Obama White House from attempting to curb funding for Israeli missile defense in years past. Israel is a steadfast ally of the United States, and they deserve an administration that won't play politics with programs that impact their safety." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 GIBBS: "We went to a city in Israel, Sderot that was being bombarded by rockets from Gaza. On that trip, began the formulation of the policy that is now in place, called the Iron Dome, which protects the citizens not just of that city but throughout Israel, because this president has had the strongest commitment of any U.S. president to Israel security." (ABC's "This Week," 7/29/12)
 OBAMA: "I'm also very pleased that this week we are going to be able to announce $70 million in additional spending -- $70 billion [million]*, excuse me, in additional spending for Iron Dome.  This is a program that has been critical in terms of providing security and safety for the Israeli families." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Washington, DC, 7/27/12)
 "Between 2011 and 2012, though, the Obama administration suggested more than $15 million in cuts to Israeli missile defense. In the 2013 budget, the White House suggested more than $6 million in cuts." (Melissa Quinn, "Obama Evolves On Israel Security Bill Just Before Romney Visit," 
, 7/29/12)
 "In February, chairs of both the House Armed Services and Foreign Relation committees sent a letter to the Obama administration questioning the defunding of the missile defense system. 'We respectfully urge, in the strongest terms, that you reconsider your budget request for this vital component of US-Israel defense cooperation,' the letter, signed by House Armed Services Chair Buck McKeon and House Foreign Relation Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, told Obama." (Melissa Quinn, "Obama Evolves On Israel Security Bill Just Before Romney Visit," 
, 7/29/12)
 (Brianna Keilar, "Open Mic Catches Obama Asking Russian President For Space On Missile Defense," 
 3/26/12)
 "President Barack Obama's decision to drop plans to deploy a ballistic-missile defense shield in Central Europe -- drawing immediate cheers in Moscow and criticism elsewhere -- is a gamble by the U.S. that scaling back its defense ambitions will improve security in the long run." (Peter Spiegel, "U.S. Shelves Nuclear-Missile Shield," 
 9/17/09)
 "Poland and the Czech Republic are still smarting from President Barack Obama's decision to scrap Bush-era plans under which they would have hosted elements of an ambitious missile shield to protect against possible long-range attack from Iran." (Gareth Jones, "Poland Ready To Take Part In Obama Missile Defense," 
, 10/21/09)
 "The U.S. move on the shield -- due to be announced later on Thursday but already flagged by Czech and Polish officials -- removes at a stroke the biggest outstanding obstacle to bilateral relations between the former superpowers and will be hailed by the Kremlin as a big victory." (Michael Stott, "Demise Of U.S. Shield May Embolden Russia Hawks," 
 9/17/09)