"President Obama continues to tout liberal studies calling for more tax hikes and more government spending. We've been down that road before — and it's led us to 41 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent. It's clear that the only plan President Obama has is more of the same. Mitt Romney believes that lower tax rates and less government will jump-start the economy and create jobs." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "Dueling with Republicans on taxes, President Barack Obama is urging the House to pass a tax cut for households earning less than $250,000 a year and drawing a bright line with rival Mitt Romney on a pocketbook issue for voters." (Ken Thomas, "Obama Pitches Tax Cuts As Pocketbook Issue In Ohio," 
, 8/1/12)
 "It's an argument that Obama often makes, but as he speaks in Mansfield, Ohio, it will come with the added weight of a new report from the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center -- which is affiliated with the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution -- that backs up his claim." (Jennifer Epstein, "Obama: Romney 'Asking You To Pay More So That People Like Him Can Get A Tax Cut'," 
, 8/1/12)
 "Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," 
, 7/17/12)
 "New research, released today by the National Federation of Independent Business, shows that allowing tax relief on the top individual rates to expire will hurt job creation and the economy. The report, published by top accounting firm Ernst & Young, shows raising top individual rates would hurt small-business job creators in particular." (NFIB, 
, 7/17/12)
 (Drs. Robert Carroll and Gerald Prante, "Long-Run Macroeconomic Impact Of Increasing Tax Rates On High-Income Taxpayers In 2013," 
, 7/12)
 "But Mr. Obama is demanding tax increases, not tax cuts, and large increases at that. If the Bush tax rates expire as scheduled on December 31, rates on the top two income brackets will jump to 39.6% from 35%, and 36% from 33%. Add the scheduled return of income phaseouts for exemptions and deductions, and the rates go up another two-percentage points—to at least 41% and 35%." (Editorial, "Off The Tax Cliff He Goes," 
, 7/9/12)
 (Samuel Brown, William Gale, and Adam Looney, "On The Distributional Effects Of Base-Broadening Income Tax Reform," 
, 8/1/12)
 "Previously, Looney was the senior economist for public finance and tax policy with the President's Council of Economic Advisers and has been an economist at the Federal Reserve Board." ("Adam Looney," 
, Accessed 8/1/12)
 "As the debate over the so-called fiscal cliff and its potential effects continues in policy and political circles, it just may be the case that the U.S. economy will be set on a better path, says Brookings Institution senior fellow William Gale. ... And for good measure, tie in a temporary fiscal stimulus, he says. Enacting a payroll tax cut or government spending on infrastructure will have a stronger impact on the economy than the Bush tax cuts, Gale argues." (Allen McDuffee, "Fiscal cliff: Go Over It And Add Stimulus, Says Brookings' William Gale," 
, 7/31/12)
 "At a speech earlier today in Cincinnati, Ohio, President Obama cited economic analysis conducted by one of his campaign donors, Kimberly Clausing, and called her a 'non-partisan economist.'" (Daniel Halper, "Obama Cites Campaign Donor As 'Non-Partisan Economist'," 
, 7/16/12)
 (
, Accessed 7/16/12)
 (
, Accessed 7/16/12)