"From his broken promise of positive campaigning to his failure to condemn outside groups, President Obama is everything he promised he wouldn't be. Instead of hope and change, he's running a campaign based on anger and divisiveness that won't create jobs or fix the economy. Americans deserve better than a president who's just another Washington politician." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "We found out today that there's an outside group spending $750,000 that just bought three-quarters of a million dollars' worth of television time. And the individual who's running the group used to be John Edward's campaign manager. You can't say yesterday, you don't believe in 'em, and today, you're having three-quarters of a million dollars being spent for you. You can't just talk the talk. The easiest thing is to talk about change during an election time. Everybody talks about change in an election time. ... My track record is strong on this. I walk the walk." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Oskaloosa, IA, 12/22/07)
 "Despite that, the Obama campaign has refused to disavow the ad, despite repeated calls from the Romney campaign to do so, claiming they were unfamiliar with the man's situation." (Zeke Miller, "Obama SuperPAC Ad Accusing Romney Of Contributing To Woman's Death Now On TV," 
, 8/14/12)
 OBAMA: "So I expect we're going to see a lot more of that over the next few days. More of the slash and burn, say-anything, do-anything politics that's calculated to divide and distract; to tear us apart instead of bringing us together. Well, that's not the kind of politics the American people need right now." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Columbus, OH, 11/2/08)
 "Vice President Biden raised eyebrows today when he referred to the Republican party as wanting to put voters in chains. ... 'Every Republican's voted for it. Look at what they value and look at their budget and what they're proposing. Romney wants to let the — he said in the first hundred days he's going to let the big banks once again write their own rules, 'unchain Wall Street.' They're going to put y'all back in chains.'" (Jake Tapper, "VP Biden Says Republicans Are 'Going To Put Y'all Back In Chains'," 
, 8/14/12)
 OBAMA: "All of those negative ads that he's running won't do a thing to lower your gas prices or to lift up the debate in this country. The fact is, these Washington tactics do the American people a disservice by trying to distract us from the very real challenges that we face." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Cedar Rapids, IA, 7/31/08)
 "President Barack Obama's re-election campaign spent millions of dollars over the past few weeks in an advertising blitz aimed at negatively defining GOP challenger Mitt Romney -- an effort that, according to several national polls and political experts, has met with tepid results." (Halimah Abdullah, "Are Obama's Negative Ads Getting Bang For The Buck?," 
, 7/26/12)
 (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Canton, Ohio, 10/27/08)
 "Obama deputy campaign manager Stephanie Cutter suggested that Mitt Romney may be a criminal on a conference call with reporters this morning about a Boston Globe report that shows that Romney stayed at Bain Capital three years past when he said he'd left. Cutter said that there were two ways to interpret the story. The first: Mitt Romney was 'misrepresenting his position' at Bain to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 'which is a felony.'" (Rosie Gray, "Cutter: Romney A Liar, Potential Criminal," 
, 7/12/12)
 OBAMA: "Because if you don't have any fresh ideas, then you use stale tactics to scare the voters. If you don't have a record to run on, then you paint your opponent as someone people should run from. You make a big election about small things." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)
 "Mitt Romney, a job-killing economic 'vampire'? That's the message of a new ad by President Barack Obama's re-election campaign, which aims to turn the presumptive Republican nominee's business record into a liability as voters worry about the struggling economy." (Olivier Knox, "Obama Campaign's New Ad Paints Romney As A Job-Killing Economic 'Vampire'," 
, 5/14/12)