"President Obama just can't seem to get things right or improve the economy for middle-class Americans. After three and a half years, his disappointing record is clear: energy prices are up, young Americans are struggling, our trade policies aren't working, deficits have soared, and small business owners are being over-taxed, over-regulated, and personally denigrated. The American people deserve better — they deserve a president who won't let them down." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" 
, 3/28/12)
 "In 2010, EIA data show, 726 million barrels of oil came from federal lands, including offshore wells. In 2011, it was 626. That's a drop of 13.77 percent, which can be rounded to 14 percent." ("Rob Portman Says Oil Production On Public Lands Was Down 14 Percent In 2011," 
, 4/2/12)
 "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," 
, 4/20/12)
 (
, Accessed 8/1/12)
("Trends In College Pricing," 
, 2011)
 "The amount Americans owe on student loans is far higher than earlier estimates and could lead some consumers to postpone buying homes, potentially slowing the housing recovery, U.S. officials said Wednesday. Total student debt outstanding appears to have surpassed $1 trillion late last year, said officials at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a federal agency created in the wake of the financial crisis." (Josh Mitchell and Maya Jackson-Randall, "Student-Loan Debt Tops $1 Trillion," 
, 3/22/12)
 (Rosa Ramirez, "Study: More Young Adults Living With Parents," 
, 8/1/12)
 "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," 
, 4/22/12)
 "The U.S. declined to brand China a currency manipulator, while asking the world's second-largest economy to strengthen the 'significantly undervalued' yuan. In its semi-annual report to Congress on exchange-rate policies, the Treasury Department said yesterday that it will continue to 'closely monitor' the pace of yuan appreciation and push for 'policy changes that yield greater exchange-rate flexibility.'" (Cheyenne Hopkins and Ian Katz, "Obama Shunning China Yuan Manipulator Tag Gets Romney Ire," 
, 5/25/12)
 "The Treasury Department on Friday once again declined to name China a currency manipulator despite bipartisan calls for action from Congress." (Julian Pecquet, "Treasury: China Not Manipulating Currency," 
, 5/25/12)
 "Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), who has been sponsored legislation that would punish Chinese imports for the undervalued currency, also criticized the administration's report. 'The administration continues to let China get away with flouting trade rules just for the sake of diplomacy. Calling out China as a manipulator may be awkward, but it is time to take off the kid glove,' he said in a statement." (Julian Pecquet, "Treasury: China Not Manipulating Currency," 
, 5/25/12)
 (
, 8/1/12)
 "The latest budget figures from the White House predict this year's federal budget deficit will end up at $1.2 trillion. That would make the fourth consecutive year of trillion dollar-plus deficits during President Obama's administration." (Andrew Taylor, "Administration Projects $1.2T 2012 Budget Deficit," 
, 7/27/12)
 "Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," 
, 7/17/12)
 "'Business owners remain on edge regarding the tidal wave of federal government regulation that has been advanced or proposed over the past two years. ... The pain of the harsh recession was intensified and lengthened by this hyper-regulatory environment,' Karen Kerrigan, president of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, wrote in a Jan. 12 letter to Issa."  (Philip Rucker and David S. Hilzenrath, "GOP Eyes Rules That Firms Say Hurt Jobs," 
 2/7/11)
 "Over the last year, the Obama administration has pressed forward on hundreds of new mandates, while also stepping up enforcement of rules by increasing the ranks of inspectors and imposing higher fines for violations. A new age of regulation is well under way in Washington ..." (Eric Lipton, "With Obama, Regulations Are Back In Fashion," 
 5/12/10)