"When President Obama declared his economic policies have 'worked,' he must have forgotten about middle-class families in Ohio. From burdensome new regulations to devastating defense cuts, President Obama's policies are threatening jobs across the state. This isn't what he promised, but it's what he delivered. Unlike President Obama, Mitt Romney will enact pro-growth policies that get Ohioans and all Americans back to work." —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan — and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, 
, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
 (Lou Whitmire, "Air Force One To Land at Threatened Mansfield Base," 
, 7/31/12)
 (Ann Compton, "Obama Flies Into Ohio Political Storm," 
, 7/31/12)
 "The local paper quotes Vice Commander Col. Michael Howard as saying he will park the wing's C-27J aircraft on the tarmac in full view of Air Force One to make a point to the visiting president. The 179th has four of the planes, two currently deployed in Afghanistan." (Ann Compton, "Obama Flies Into Ohio Political Storm," 
, 7/31/12)
 "When the president travels to Mansfield on Wednesday, I hope he will get a better sense of just how vital the C-27J program is to the Air National Guard Base at Mansfield and the economy of north central Ohio." (Lou Whitmire, "Air Force One To Land at Threatened Mansfield Base," 
, 7/31/12)
 "Our first question to the president would be: What about the C-27J program at Mansfield Lahm Regional Airport? The Air National Guard base where Air Force One will land remains threatened by Obama's proposed cuts to the military budget. With no replacement mission for the 179th, the cargo planes that served so valiantly in Afghanistan could be scrapped next year. The cost to operate these planes -- and staff the Air National Guard unit -- is far lower than any alternative aircraft operated by our full-time military. We have proven the cost effectiveness of the 179th, yet the president's military budget has proposed eliminating the aircraft and ending the 179th's mission in Mansfield. Beyond the threat to national security, Mansfield stands to lose nearly 1,000 jobs if the president gets his way." (Editorial, "A Few Questions For The President," 
, 7/29/12)
 "President Barack Obama's proposed emission rules for power plants effectively prohibit new coal- fired power plants, buttressing the nation's shift away from a power source that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas." (Mark Drajem, "Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise Of 'Old King Coal,'" 
, 3/28/12)
 "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," 
, 7/7/11)
 "FirstEnergy says that more than 500 people, 401 locally, could lose their jobs, although many who work at the plants now will be offered jobs at other plants, according to the Akron company." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," 
, 1/29/12)
 "These plant closures will be a punch in the gut for communities already battling sour unemployment numbers. Three of the plants are in Cleveland, Eastlake and Ashtabula, which stand to lose millions in property taxes as well as many jobs." (Editorial, "Coal Plants' Loss Will Hurt Ohio," 
, 1/29/12)
 "President Obama's auto task force pressed General Motors and Chrysler to close scores of dealerships without adequately considering the jobs that would be lost or having a firm idea of the cost savings that would be achieved, an audit of the process has concluded." (Nick Bunkley, "TARP Audit Questions Rush To Close Auto Dealers," 
, 7/18/10)
 "A total of 79 dealerships are expected to close in Ohio, according to a list of dealerships whose franchise agreements are not expected to be renewed by the fall of 2010. The list was released by the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee's subcommittee on oversight and investigations and was based on information provided by GM (NYSE: GM)." ("Ohio Has Second-Biggest Hit From GM Dealer Closings," 
, 6/15/09)
 "Owners of surviving Chrysler dealerships expressed disappointment in the mass closings. 'It's awful. It may be the most historic day in the auto industry. It's awful,' said Chuck Eddy, co-owner of Bob & Chuck Eddy Chrysler-Dodge-Jeep in Austintown. Eddy's Chrysler franchise was among the lucky ones that will continue. Eddy joined other car dealers from Northeast Ohio to lobby Ohio's congressional delegation this week in Washington, D.C., to pressure the White House not to force dealerships to close. 'It's an awful day in the history of America,' he said. 'It's emotional for me. I grew up with Chrysler. It runs in my blood.'" (Jim Mackinnon and Cheryl Powell, "End Of The Road For Local Dealers," 
, 5/15/09)