"The Obama team refuses to take a stand on whether Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. After initially claiming in 2008 that Jerusalem should remain the capital, President Obama and his advisers have shamefully ducked and dodged on the President's position. As president, Mitt Romney would ensure Israel has a steadfast ally in the United States, including support for its capital, Jerusalem." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 QUESTION: "What city does this administration consider to be the capital of Israel -- Jerusalem or Tel Aviv?" CARNEY: "I haven't had that question in a while. Our position has not changed, Connie." QUESTION: "What is the position? What's the capital?" CARNEY: "You know our position." QUESTION: "I don't." QUESTION: "No, no, she doesn't know. She doesn't know. That's why she asked." CARNEY: "She does know" QUESTION: "I don't." QUESTION: "She does not know. She just said she doesn't know. I don't know." (
, 7/26/12)
 QUESTION: "Tel Aviv or Jerusalem?" CARNEY: "You know the answer. Yes." QUESTION: "No, I don't know the answer. We don't know the answer. Could you just give us an answer? What do you recognize -- what does" CARNEY: "Our position hasn't changed, Lester." (
, 7/26/12)
 OBAMA: "Israel I think has a historic claim on Jerusalem. I think that obviously there are sacred sites in the Old City that are central to not just Judaism but also to Islam and Christianity. I think it is very important for us to find a way in which all those claims are respected. This is something that I think is very important for the parties themselves to decide, but I believe that it is not an acceptable option for Jerusalem to be severed from Israel along the lines of the 1967 borders. That is not going to be an option." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks In A Q&A Session, 
, 4/16/08)
 (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Arlington, VA, 6/4/08)
 CNN'S CANDY CROWLEY: "I want to ask you about something you said in AIPAC yesterday. You said that Jerusalem must remain undivided. Do Palestinians have no claim to Jerusalem in the future?" OBAMA: "Well, obviously, it's going to be up to the parties to negotiate a range of these issues." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 6/5/08)
 (S. 1322, 
: Passed 93-5, 10/24/95, Biden Voted Yea)
 "Obama visited Israel in 2008 while he was a presidential candidate but has not been back since. He has been to 30 countries, so far, as commander-in-chief, including Ghana, Ireland and El Salvador." (Cameron Joseph, "GOP: Romney Can Shame Obama, Boost Foreign Policy Credentials With Israel Trip," 
, 5/14/12)
: 
 (Governor Mitt Romney, 
, Jerusalem, Israel, 7/29/12)
 "'A nation has the capacity to choose its own capital city, and Jerusalem is Israel's capital,' Romney told CNN's Wolf Blitzer in an interview set to air Monday. 'I think it's long been the policy to ultimately have our embassy in the nation's capital of Jerusalem.'" (Kevin Liptak, "Romney Says Jerusalem Is Israel's Capital, Vows To Move Embassy," 
, 7/29/12)