"Days after a leading Democrat claimed the White House was involved in leaking sensitive security information, President Obama and his advisers still won't give the American people a straight answer on who's to blame. It's time for this White House to finally come clean and tell voters what they knew and when they knew it, so those responsible can be held to account for their contemptible conduct." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 FOX NEWS' ED HENRY: "Can you say flatly that nobody from the White House was involved in the national security leaks that are being investigated?" CARNEY: "Well Ed as you know this is a matter being investigated by two experienced prosecutors. I can't specifically speak about it. I can point you to the statements of the President, the statements I've made in the past about this, about the seriousness with which he takes this issue..." (
, 7/26/12)
 MSNBC's JOE SCARBOROUGH: "It is very obvious, it is very obvious the White House is leaking classified information." AXELROD: "Well, Joe, I can tell you, that the President of the United States did not leak classified information, as Mitt Romney suggested yesterday, didn't authorize the leak of classified information, as Mitt Romney suggested yesterday, and I think it was largely a diversion because what's he going to talk about?" (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 7/25/12)
  BLITZER: "I'm anxious to get your sense about the leaks, about the bin Laden raid, whether it did undermine sources and methods, it went too far, there are investigations as you know on the Hill right now. Can you share a thought with us on how you feel about all this?" MCRAVEN: "Well we're never happy when leaks occur, obviously. We go to great lengths to protect our national security, very great lengths to protect our sources and methods. So all of that we guard very carefully. Unfortunately not everyone guards that very carefully. I think what you've seen is the Secretary and the President and Capitol Hill are taking these leaks very, very seriously, as they should. And we need to do the best we can to clamp down on it, because sooner or later it's going to cost people their lives, or it's going to cost us our national security. So it is important." (2012 Aspen Security Forum, The Aspen Institute, 
, 7/25/12)
 PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: "The notion that my White House would purposely release classified national security information is offensive.  It's wrong.  And people I think need to have a better sense of how I approach this office and how the people around me here approach this office." (President Barack Obama, 
, 6/8/12)
 CARNEY: "This administration takes all appropriate and necessary steps to prevent leaks of classified information or sensitive information that could risk ongoing counterterrorism or intelligence operations. Any suggestion that the White House has leaked sensitive information for political purposes has no basis in fact and has been denied by the authors themselves, as one of the authors of The New York Times story on Obama's counterterrorism record said, 'The notion that the White House prompted the story or controlled our reporting and writing is absurd.'" (White House 
, 6/7/12)