"Throughout his time in office, President Obama has repeatedly demonstrated how misplaced his priorities are by focusing on his own liberal agenda instead of job creation. But nowhere has this trend been more apparent than in President Obama's failure to even meet with his own jobs council for 191 days. With so many middle-class families struggling in the Obama economy, Americans deserve a president who will put job creation first." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (President Barack Obama, 
, Washington, DC, 1/17/12)
 (National Journal's "Daybook," 7/26/12)
 (
, 7/19/12)
 CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("
," 7/17/12)
 CNBC's JOHN HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
 "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," 
, 7/7/12)
 "When the job market began to crack in April, most economists said they weren't worried about the recovery. They're worried now. As the recovery slows, optimism is giving way to caution, with undercurrents of something darker." (Tim Mullaney and Paul Davidson, "Fragile Economic Recovery Shows Growing Cracks," 
, 7/22/12)
 OBAMA: "Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business, you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn't get invented on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all the companies could make money off the Internet." (President Barack Obama, 
, Roanoke, VA, 7/13/12)