Mitt Romney addressed the VFW National Convention today at the Reno-Sparks Convention Center in Reno, Nevada. Below is his strategy to reform the Department of Veterans Affairs and restore faith with our veterans.
As president, Mitt Romney will implement reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs to restore faith with our veterans. The system has struggled to keep up with the needs of our returning warriors. Since 2008, the backlog for disability benefit claims has doubled, veteran suicide rates have sharply increased, and the unemployment rate for returning veterans remains high above the national average.
Mitt Romney will unleash the American economy to grow again and create well-paying jobs. He will cut taxes, lift job-killing regulations, and slash debt to encourage job creators to invest and grow their businesses. He will reverse President Obama's defense cuts that could force 200,000 troops out of the service. With the unemployment rate for returning veterans at unacceptable levels, it is vital that veterans aren't sent from the front lines to the unemployment lines.
Governor Romney will not allow an entire generation of veterans to lose faith with the VA. Because veterans strongly prefer to receive care within the VA system, focus will be directed toward improving and strengthening that system.
President Obama signed legislation that cut half a trillion from the military, while submitting a budget request that grew nearly every other federal agency. Mitt Romney will prioritize restoring, preserving, and protecting the proud Armed Forces that our veterans built. That means reversing cuts that could:
President Obama's first term was marked by significant cuts to our wartime military, but expansive growth to the rest of the government. Mitt Romney believes that keeping the American people safe from harm is our Republic's most sacred responsibility. Defense and veteran spending is less than 20% of the federal spending, but has absorbed over 50% of deficit reduction efforts to date. Governor Romney will rebuild, revitalize, and restore a military that has been worn ragged by ten years of war and systemic budget cuts. Mitt Romney will: