"President Obama's advisers claim the 'buck stops' with the President on the economy. But while President Obama tells Americans that his plan 'worked' and we're moving 'in the right direction,' another anemic quarter of economic growth and a slumping jobs market proves otherwise. Mitt Romney will pursue pro-growth economic policies that deliver a record he can run on, not run from." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 DOWD: "I want to focus, Robert, on the 1.5% GDP number that came out on Friday. Many people think that is an extremely anemic number, that that's not the kind of growth that we need. Do you think the president - Well the President is now responsible. Is this the president's economy, does he own this economy? Should he be held accountable for whatever happens in this economy?" GIBBS: "Well, look Matthew, the President is the President of the United States. He understands where the buck stops." (ABC's "This Week," 7/29/12)
 CBS' SCOTT PELLEY: "Good evening. This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had. We'd been looking for hopeful signs, but today the chairman of the Federal Reserve threw a cold splash of reality on those hopes." ("
," 7/17/12)
 (Tom Raum, "The Race: Economic Report Unwelcome News For Obama," 
, 7/27/12)
 "The U.S. economy grew at an annual rate of just 1.5 percent from April through June, as Americans cut back sharply on spending. The slowest growth in a year adds to worries that the economy could be stalling three years after the recession ended." ("Economic Growth Slowed To 1.5 Percent Rate In 2nd Quarter, Slowest In A Year," 
, 7/27/12)
 "A U.S. economy that plodded along in the first three months of the year likely grew even less in the April-June quarter. And most economists no longer think growth will strengthen much in the second half of 2012. Weaker hiring, nervous consumers, sluggish manufacturing and the overhang of Europe's debt crisis might be pointing toward everyone's big fear: another recession." ("Economists Think Another Recession Is Possible," 
, 7/27/12)
 CNBC's JOHN HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
 "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," 
, 7/7/12)
 OBAMA: "Just like we've tried their plan, we tried our plan — and it worked. That's the difference. That's the choice in this election. That's why I'm running for a second term." (President Barack Obama, 
, Oakland, CA, 7/23/12)
 "President Obama said at a campaign event on Friday that the June jobs report shows the economy has taken 'a step in the right direction.'" (Donovan Slack, "Obama On Jobs Report: 'Step In The Right Direction'," 
, 7/6/12)
 
 (President Barack Obama, 
 Washington, DC, 6/8/12)