"As energy prices have risen and our economy continues to struggle, President Obama insists on hindering efforts to expand domestic production and create American jobs. His self-described 'hodgepodge' energy policy has been an abject failure. Whether blocking job-creating initiatives like the Keystone pipeline or wasting taxpayer money on boondoggles like Solyndra, President Obama doesn't have a clue when it comes to America's energy future." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The White House on Monday waved the veto pen at a House GOP bill that would require vastly wider offshore oil-and-gas leasing. 'The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 6082, which would undermine the targeted, science-based, and regionally-tailored offshore development strategy that the American people and the States have helped develop over the last three years,' the White House said in a 'formal statement of administration policy,' referring to the House plan by its bill number." (Ben German, "White House Threatens To Veto GOP Drilling bill," 
 7/23/12)
 "The House will vote as soon as Tuesday on the bill that requires Interior Department oil-and-gas leasing off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, which remain off-limits for at least the next five years under the Obama administration's plans." (Ben German, "White House Threatens To Veto GOP Drilling bill," 
 7/23/12)
 "Oil and gas permitting on U.S. land quickened under the Bush administration and hit a peak during the 2007 fiscal year, when Interior approved 7,124 permits to drill for oil and gas on federal lands. The Obama administration, by contrast, approved 4,487 such permits in 2009 and 4,090 in 2010, according to BLM data." (Ryan Tracy, "Wind And Solar Projects Advance On A Fast Track," 
, 12/31/11)
 "In early 2010, he proposed to open some new areas to drilling but shut that down after the Gulf oil spill. According to the Greater New Orleans Gulf Permits Index for January 31, over the previous three months the feds issued an average of three deep-water drilling permits a month compared to the historical average of seven. Over the same three months, the feds approved an average of 4.7 shallow-water permits a month, compared to the historical average of 14.7." (Editorial, "'Stupid' And Oil Prices," 
, 2/27/12)
 (Marc Humphries, "U.S. Crude Oil Production In Federal And Non-Federal Areas," Congressional Research Service, 3/20/12)
 "Domestic oil production may be at an all-time high nationwide, but the increase is primarily occurring on state and private lands rather than on federal land and waters, where production appears to have dropped significantly in 2011, according to the most recent government data." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," 
, 2/27/12)
 "According to EIA, the production of tight oil has tripled in the past three years to about 900 thousand barrels per day as of November 2011, largely in North Dakota, Texas and Montana, but much of the production is on state and private lands and not land controlled by the federal government." (Leigh Ann Caldwell, "Face The Facts: A Fact Check On Gas Prices," 
, 3/21/12)
 "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," 
, 4/20/12)
 
 "The administration seems to think that it can use environmental claptrap to convince the American public that it is behaving ethically and legally in denying the TransCanada permit, even after the company has spent $1.9 billion over 40 months carefully adhering to the federal regulatory process. And a lot of Americans will not have the time or inclination to get into the weeds on this issue."  (Mary Anastasia O'Grady, "Obama's Keystone Delay Flouts The Law," 
, 1/23/12)
 "'Our unions have been steadfast supporters of the Keystone XL pipeline, a project ... that would put significant numbers of American skilled craft professionals back to work under a project agreement that ensures safe and efficient construction,' said Mark Ayers, president of the Building and Construction Trades Department, an AFL-CIO-affiliated group, in a statement." (Justin Sink, "Despite Battles Over Keystone And Jobs Council, AFL-CIO Endorses Obama," 
, 3/13/12)