"From balanced budgets to economic growth, President Clinton accomplished goals that President Obama simply hasn't matched. After three and a half years, President Obama has added trillions of dollars in new debt and deficits and has threatened to undo President Clinton's historic welfare reforms. Voters deserve better, and they deserve a president who can run on his own record in office." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "After the Obama administration announced this week that it is opening up waivers to states from the work requirements contained in welfare reform, Republicans began to speak out against the move, complaining it completely undercuts the law." (John Parkinson, "Upending Welfare Reform?" 
, 6/13/12)
 "Friday, Clinton rattled off a litany of his administration's bipartisan achievements, including welfare reform, balancing the budget, telecommunications legislation and an expansion of children's health insurance coverage." (Jonathan Weisman, "Gore Lets Clinton Out Of His Box," 
, 10/28/00)
 "Obama's budget projects that the deficit for the current year will total $1.33 trillion, the fourth straight year of deficits over $1 trillion." ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," 
, 2/13/12)
"Democrat Bill Clinton was president the last time the federal budget was balanced, and Republicans controlled Congress." (Jim Dexter, "CNN Fact Check: The Last President To Balance The Budget," 
, 2/3/10)
 (David Espo, "Obama Hits Clinton On NAFTA Support," 
, 2/24/08)
 CLINTON: "First of all, because NAFTA means jobs. American jobs, and good-paying American jobs. If I didn't believe that, I wouldn't support this agreement." (President Bill Clinton, Remarks, Washington, DC, 9/14/93)
 "The number of Americans living below the poverty line rose to a record 46 million last year, the government said on Tuesday, underscoring the challenges facing President Barack Obama and Congress as they try to tackle high unemployment and a moribund economy." (David Morgan, "Number Of Poor Hit Record 46 Million In 2010," 
, 9/13/11)
 "During Bill Clinton's two terms as president, the median family income increased by 14 percent, the number of Americans in poverty declined by nearly 17 percent, and the number of children in poverty fell by almost one-fourth." (Ronald Brownstein, "A Lost Decade," 
, 7/7/11)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 7/26/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 7/26/12)