"In no region of the world is our country's influence any stronger than it was four years ago. President Obama has failed to restore our economy, is weakening our military with devastating defense cuts, and has diminished our moral authority. Governor Romney will restore the pillars of American strength to secure our interests and defend our values." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 OBAMA: "Because we're leading around the world, people have a new attitude toward America. There's more confidence in our leadership. We see it everywhere we go." (President Barack Obama, Remarks To The VFW, Reno, NV, 7/23/12)


 "Ambassador Michael Oren told Israeli consuls in the US during a conference that a nearly week-old public fight that broke out during Vice President Joe Biden's visit marks a low point in diplomatic relations since the mid-1970s when the Ford administration reassessed ties with Israel over a disengagement agreement with Egypt and froze arms shipments." (Joshua Mitnick, "US Israel Settlements Fight Marks Lowest Point Since 1970s: Ambassador," 
, 3/15/10)
 "Venezuela's Hugo Chavez has signaled a preference in the U.S. presidential campaign by comparing Mitt Romney to his own challenger. Chavez, who is up for re-election a month before U.S. President Barack Obama, has in recent weeks expressed a clear preference for the man currently in the White House. ... 'In the end, it's the same project,' Chavez said, referring to Obama as 'a good guy.'" ("Hugo Chavez Calls Obama A 'Good Guy,' Slams Romney's 'Extreme' Agenda," 
, 7/23/12)
 "The daughter of Cuba's president supports the re-election bid of U.S. President Barack Obama, but believes he could do more were it not for the pressures he is facing, she said in an interview broadcast Monday on 'CNNi's Amanpour.' 'As a citizen of the world, I would like him to win,' said Mariela Castro Espin, daughter of Raul Castro, in the exclusive interview, which was conducted Friday in New York. 'Given the choices, I prefer Obama.'" ("Obama Wins Endorsement From Raul Castro's Daughter," 
, 6/4/12)
 "An array of military programs, from fighter jets to retiree benefits, would be nicked to squeeze savings in the Pentagon's $525 billion budget for 2013, according to officials and documents released Monday. The proposed 2013 budget represents the Pentagon's first installment in a plan to reduce its projected spending by $487 billion over 10 years. Congress must approve the changes." (Tom Vanden Brook, "Pentagon Budget Calls For Cuts To Jets, Benefits," 
, 2/13/12)
 "Those cuts could soon swell substantially. If Obama and Congress cannot agree on another package of spending reductions or tax increases by next January, the Pentagon could be forced to slash an extra $600 billion over 10 years." (Craig Whitlock, "Pentagon Budget Set To Shrink Next Year," 
, 1/26/12)
"Unfortunately, the Obama Administration has taken actions that will only undermine the alliance. The U.S. military is facing nearly $1 trillion in cuts over the next ten years. And President Obama has sent the message—intentionally or not—that the worth of NATO has diminished in America's eyes. At this moment of both opportunities and perils, the NATO alliance must retain the capacity to act. As president, I will work closely with our partners to bolster the alliance. I will reverse Obama-era military cuts." (Mitt Romney, 
, 5/18/12)