 BOBBY STRICKLAND: I didn't see it coming. If they saw it coming no one said anything about it. I was there for only a short time. I was gung-ho, I was a contract employee and due to go permanent a couple weeks after everything had happened. So I didn't see it coming at all. ... I want to know why I'm behind on my bills now? Sallie Mae wants to know why they are not going to get their loan for this month and maybe next month. I have to tell them something. I told them I was put out of a job. I want to know why." (Fox News' "On The Record," 9/23/11)
 "'After we got the loan guarantee, they were just spending money left and right," said former Solyndra engineer Lindsey Eastburn. 'Because we were doing well, nobody cared. Because of that infusion of money, it made people sloppy.'" (Carol Leonnig, "Solyndra's Ex-Employees Tell Of High Spending Factory Woes," 
, 9/22/11)
 ELIZABETH CHELETTE: "I'm sitting at my computer everyday looking for jobs. We have a job fair coming up next Friday I'm planning to attend. Just pretty much putting my resume out there to all the companies out there. Just looking for jobs." (Fox News' "America's Newsroom," 9/16/11)
 BOBBY STRICKLAND: I think people who were let go, everybody else wants to know what happened to the money? Why is it that you can plead the fifth when millions of dollars are involved? People want to know why? I would like to know why I was put out of a job. I'm pretty sure Lindsey would like to know why he was put out of a job. I'm sure everybody else would like to know why they were put out of a job. Where is the money?" (Fox News' "On The Record," 9/23/11)
 CBS' JOHN BLACKSTONE: "Solyndra boasted about its advanced technology, but now there are suspicions its political connections were at least as important in securing its huge government loan. The biggest investor in Solyndra is Oklahoma billionaire, George Kaiser, a major fundraiser for the Obama presidential campaign." PETER KOHLSTADT: "Obama being there and everybody figured out, this company can't fail. ... All the news that is coming out, you wonder where a lot of the money went." (CBS' "Evening News," 9/14/11)
 "The Obama administration restructured a half-billion dollar federal loan to a troubled solar energy company in such a way that private investors — including a fundraiser for President Barack Obama — moved ahead of taxpayers for repayment in case of a default, government records show. ... Under terms of the February loan restructuring, two private investors — Argonaut Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP — stand to be repaid before the U.S. government if the solar company is liquidated." (Matthew Daly, "Obama Admin Reworked Solyndra Loan To Favor Donor," 
, 9/16/11)