"As the failures of his presidency become more evident, Barack Obama has resorted to the tactics of a typical politician — dishonest and totally unsubstantiated attacks meant to distract from his own record by smearing the reputation of his opponent. President Obama once promised to be a different kind of politician. He promised not to engage in divisive attacks, and he promised to tell us the truth. As with so many of his unfulfilled promises, President Obama has let us down." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 
 SHAUN BOYD, KCNC-TV (CBS-DENVER): "The Obama campaign is going all out with its latest line of attack. It's launched two new ads claiming Mitt Romney supports outsourcing American jobs. The ads are so similar I'll examine them together." ... BOYD: "Bottom line, jobs are the top issue this election, and many voters are worried about the loss of American jobs to overseas companies, which is why the Obama campaign is spending millions of dollars to convince us Mitt Romney is part of the problem. Problem is: these ads don't bear that out. I'm Shaun Boyd and that's 'Reality Check.'" (KCNC-TV, 7/10/12)
 "Claim: A new ad endorsed by President Barack Obama that is airing on KLAS-TV Channel 8 attacks Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney by stating: 'Newly published documents show Mitt Romney's firms were pioneers at helping companies outsource their manufacturing to countries including China.' ... Verdict: Misleading, but not as much as a similar ad Obama's campaign has run locally that is based on the same Washington Post story." (Steve Kanigher, "Fact Check: Obama Ad Continues Attack On Romney-Bain Connection," 
, 7/10/11)
 "Second, the charge itself is suspect. The independent group FactCheck.org investigated the Post's allegations - and the Obama campaign's ads citing the Post as a source. Their conclusion: ' ... we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney - while he was still running Bain Capital - shipped American jobs overseas.'" (Steve Sebelius, "No Reason To Outsource The Truth In Ads," 
, 7/11/12)
 "But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
 "Yet the campaign clearly seized on this report because their interpretation fit with a long-term "outsourcing" attack they have waged against Romney. One of their outsourcing ads before the article ran, in fact, earned Four Pinocchios. These new ads would not fare much better; there is little in the Post article that backs up the Obama campaign's spin." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's New Attacks On Romney And Outsourcing," 
, 7/2/12)
 "And after reviewing evidence cited by the Obama campaign, we reaffirm our conclusion that Romney left the helm of Bain Capital when he took a leave of absence in 1999 to run the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics — as he has said repeatedly — and never returned to active management. The Obama campaign's recent ads thus mislead when they point to investments made by Bain, as well as management decisions made by companies in which Bain invested, after that time." (Brooks Jackson and Robert Farley, with Eugene Kiely, "FactCheck To Obama Camp: Your Complaint is All Wet," 
, 7/2/12)
 "The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing. Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," 
, 6/21/12)
 "While White House officials say they have been waiting on Congress to act, Obama's critics, primarily on the political left, say he has repeatedly failed in other ways to protect American jobs from being moved overseas." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
 7/9/12)
 "But Obama's critics say the most important step the president could take — but hasn't — is to declare China a 'currency manipulator,' which could ultimately allow the U.S. government to erect tariffs to protect American industries." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
 7/9/12)
 "According to some critics, a galling example of the Obama administration fostering overseas work came as part the 2009 stimulus program. They point to millions of dollars meant to develop a domestic clean-energy industry that instead landed in the hands of foreign businesses." (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
 7/9/12)
 (Tom Hamburger, et al, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
 7/9/12)