"Life in the Obama economy is difficult for millions of struggling middle-class Americans — but President Obama didn't make it any easier for more than a thousand workers at Solyndra. While the President's political allies reaped the benefits of half a billion dollars in taxpayer funds, American workers lost everything. Middle-class families deserve better from their president." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "Energy Secretary Steven Chu today offered a $535 million loan guarantee for Solyndra, Inc. to support the company's construction of a commercial-scale manufacturing plant for its proprietary cylindrical solar photovoltaic panels. The company expects to create thousands of new jobs in the U.S. while deploying its solar panels across the U.S. and around the world." (U.S. Department Of Energy, "Obama Administration Offers $535 Million Loan Guarantee To Solyndra, Inc.," 
, 3/20/09)
 "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," 
, 9/1/11)
 "On the day it closed, Solyndra said it was laying off 1,100 full-time and temporary employees. But 1,861 workers lost their jobs as the solar panel manufacturer shut its doors, according to U.S. Labor Department documents provided to The Bay Citizen under the Freedom of Information Act." (Aaron Glantz, "Solyndra Layoffs Larger Than Previously Reported," 
, 6/13/12)
 "The Obama administration restructured a half-billion dollar federal loan to a troubled solar energy company in such a way that private investors — including a fundraiser for President Barack Obama — moved ahead of taxpayers for repayment in case of a default, government records show. ... Under terms of the February loan restructuring, two private investors — Argonaut Ventures I LLC and Madrone Partners LP — stand to be repaid before the U.S. government if the solar company is liquidated." (Matthew Daly, "Obama Admin Reworked Solyndra Loan To Favor Donor," 
, 9/16/11)
 "Kaiser's Argonaut Ventures and its affiliates have been the single largest shareholder of Solyndra, according to SEC filings and other records. The company holds 39 percent of Solyndra's parent company, bankruptcy records filed Tuesday show." (Ronnie Greene And Matthew Mosk, "Obama Officials Sat In On Solyndra Meetings," 
 9/9/11)
 (
, Accessed 7/13/12)
 Three Times On March 12, 2009; March 13, 2009; May 7, 2009; Three Times On June 25, 2009; Twice On November 12, 2009; December 15, 2009; February 24, 2010 Twice On June 25, 2010; Twice On April 14, 2011; July 18, 2011. (
, Accessed 7/13/12)
 "His first recorded visit to the White House was March 12, 2009, when he met separately with Austan Goolsbee, a senior economic adviser to Obama, Pete Rouse, a senior adviser to the president, and Heather Higginbottom, deputy director of the Domestic Policy Council. The next day he met with Jason Furman, a member of Obama's National Economic Council. That month, the Energy Department awarded Solyndra the $535 million loan guarantee to commercialize its cylindrical solar panels." (Jim Snyder, "FBI Raids Bankrupt Solyndra As Lawmakers Question Panel Maker's Finances," 
 9/9/11)
 "An elite Obama fundraiser hired to help oversee the administration's energy loan program pushed and prodded career Department of Energy officials to move faster in approving a loan guarantee for Solyndra, even as his wife's law firm was representing the California solar company, according to internal emails made public late Friday." (Matthew Mosk, "Obama Fundraiser Pushed Solyndra Deal From Inside," 
, 10/7/11)
 "The Energy Department came under criticism from Republicans earlier this year when agency e-mails raised questions about a possible conflict of interest involving Steven J. Spinner, a former department loan adviser who disclosed that his wife worked for Wilson Sonsini, a Silicon Valley law firm that handled funding applications for several clean-tech companies. Wilson Sonsini's clean-tech clients reaped $2.75 billion in Department of Energy grants and financing, the Post analysis found." (Carol D. Leonnig and Joe Stephens, "Venture Capitalists Play Key Role In Obama's Energy Department," 
, 2/14/12)