 "Oscar Haza, a well-known Miami Spanish-language broadcast journalist and anchor, scored an interview this week in Washington with President Barack Obama in which Obama said Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez has not posed a "serious" national security threat to the United States." (Patricia Mazzei, "Obama To Miami Anchor: Hugo Chávez Has Not Posed 'Serious' National Security Threat," 
, 7/10/12)
 (Patricia Mazzei, "Obama To Miami Anchor: Hugo Chávez Has Not Posed 'Serious' National Security Threat," 
, 7/10/12)
 QUESTION: "In what way is Hugo Chavez's government in Venezuela not a serious security threat to the U.S.?" CARNEY: "You know what, I'm going to have to refer you to the State Department on that. I saw that story before I came out but I didn't read it so I don't know the underlying aspect of it." (Jay Carney, White House Press Briefing, 7/11/12)
 "Sen. Bill Nelson of Florida, at the end of a three-day visit to Venezuela on Saturday, blasted President Hugo Chavez for aiding Colombian guerrillas, blocking a recall referendum sought by the opposition and ignoring a flourishing black market for passports and other official documents that could fall into the hands of terrorists. 'We may reach the point where the U.S. has to treat this government as a hostile and unfriendly government to the U.S. and the U.S. interests,' said Nelson, a Democratic member of the Senate's Foreign Relations Committee." (Richard Brand, "Sen. Nelson Rails On Chavez, Policies 'Unfriendly' To U.S.," 
, 4/18/04)
 "Chavez took issue with comments Reid made just hours earlier to the National Press Club in Washington, citing the Venezuelan leader as among the threats facing the United States in 2007 because 'Chavez and (Cuba's Fidel) Castro want to put their leftist marks on young democracies.'" ("Venezuela's Chavez Takes Aim At Reid," 
 1/19/07)
 "In his new statement, Kerry lumped Castro and Chávez together, accusing the Venezuelan leader of punishing political opponents and aiding drug traffickers. 'His close relationship with Fidel Castro has raised serious questions about his commitment to leading a truly democratic government,' the statement said." (Peter Wallsten, "Kerry Says Bush Is Soft On Chávez," 
, 3/23/04)
 "A group of Republican senators is asking Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to get tough with Venezuela's Hugo Chávez over what they say are the South American leftist's accelerating human rights abuses. ... In a letter sent Wednesday to Clinton, the senators list several examples of 'worsening conditions' for Venezuela's civil society and political opposition, including the December arrest and ongoing detention of a judge whose parole of a jailed business leader infuriated Chávez. ... Joining the Republican senators was Joe Lieberman of Connecticut." (Howard LaFranchi, "Get Tough On Hugo Chávez, GOP Senators Tell Hillary Clinton," 
, 7/21/10)