"The Obama campaign must think Mitt Romney is Superman. He was, in reality, rescuing the Olympics by working in Utah 24/7 for the years the Obama campaign also alleges he was running Bain Capital. Even though the Obama campaign may be wrong about his involvement in Bain Capital, it shows that even they can admit Mitt Romney is a great leader." —Former Governor John Sununu
 "The Obama campaign said a Boston Globe report Thursday proves Mitt Romney hasn't been truthful about when he left Bain Capital. The Globe story cites SEC filings to prove Romney stayed on as head of Bain Capital after 1999." (Pema Levy, "Obama Camp: Romney 'Wasn't Telling The Truth'," 
, 7/12/12)
." (Steve Peoples, "Bain Capital Defends Record In Light Of Criticism," 
, 5/16/12)
 "And after reviewing evidence cited by the Obama campaign, we reaffirm our conclusion that Romney left the helm of Bain Capital when he took a leave of absence in 1999 to run the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics — as he has said repeatedly — and never returned to active management." (Brooks Jackson and Robert Farley, with Eugene Kiely, "FactCheck To Obama Camp: Your Complaint Is All Wet," 
, 7/2/12)
 "The Obama campaign pointed us to a series of SEC filings and news accounts showing that three companies within Bain Capital's portfolio sent jobs overseas. Romney served as chief executive of the firm, which specialized in private-equity investment and leveraged buyouts during his tenure there. He left the company in February 1999 to become president and chief executive of the committee that organized the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City." (Josh Hicks, "Does Mitt Romney Love Outsourcing?" 
, 5/4/12)
 "But a 2002 statement the former executive filed with the Massachusetts State Ethics Commission said he was a 'passive, limited partner [with] no management capacity' in the Bain entities in which he held ownership." (Josh Hicks, "Does Mitt Romney Love Outsourcing?" 
, 5/4/12)
 
 "We've gone over this problem with the Obama campaign before, awarding three Pinocchios to a January memo the team released blaming Romney for job losses and bad deals that took place after the former executive had stopped working for Bain....These facts essentially exonerate Romney from allegations that he was responsible for any outsourcing, bad deals and layoffs that occurred with Bain's companies in the early 2000s." (Josh Hicks, "Does Mitt Romney Love Outsourcing?" 
, 5/4/12)
 
 "In 1999, when Romney stepped down as the head of Bain Capital, the top tax rate for income was 39.6 percent, while the top rate for capital gains was about half that, at 20 percent." (Michael Kranish And Scott Helman, 
, 2011, p. 162)
 
 "The Real Romney was written by Scott Helman and Michael Kranish of The Boston Globe staff, and edited by Mark S. Morrow, the deputy managing editor who oversees the Sunday Globe and major news projects. It builds on the work of the many Globe staffers who have tracked Mitt Romney's life and career over the decades, including those who contributed to a landmark seven-part biographical series published as he launched his first presidential run." (Michael Kranish And Scott Helman, 
, 2011)
 SHAUN BOYD, KCNC-TV (CBS-DENVER): "The Obama campaign is going all out with its latest line of attack. It's launched two new ads claiming Mitt Romney supports outsourcing American jobs. The ads are so similar I'll examine them together." ... BOYD: "Bottom line, jobs are the top issue this election, and many voters are worried about the loss of American jobs to overseas companies, which is why the Obama campaign is spending millions of dollars to convince us Mitt Romney is part of the problem. Problem is: these ads don't bear that out. I'm Shaun Boyd and that's 'Reality Check.'" (
, 7/10/12)
 "Claim: A new ad endorsed by President Barack Obama that is airing on KLAS-TV Channel 8 attacks Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney by stating: 'Newly published documents show Mitt Romney's firms were pioneers at helping companies outsource their manufacturing to countries including China.' ... Verdict: Misleading, but not as much as a similar ad Obama's campaign has run locally that is based on the same Washington Post story." (Steve Kanigher, "Fact Check: Obama Ad Continues Attack On Romney-Bain Connection," 
, 7/10/11)
 "Second, the charge itself is suspect. The independent group FactCheck.org investigated the Post's allegations - and the Obama campaign's ads citing the Post as a source. Their conclusion: ' ... we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney - while he was still running Bain Capital - shipped American jobs overseas.'" (Steve Sebelius, "No Reason To Outsource The Truth In Ads," 
, 7/11/12)
 "But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
 "Yet the campaign clearly seized on this report because their interpretation fit with a long-term "outsourcing" attack they have waged against Romney. One of their outsourcing ads before the article ran, in fact, earned Four Pinocchios. These new ads would not fare much better; there is little in the Post article that backs up the Obama campaign's spin." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's New Attacks On Romney And Outsourcing," 
, 7/2/12)
 "The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing. Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," 
, 6/21/12)