"The Obama campaign is trying to convince Americans that spending millions of dollars on false, debunked attacks isn't negative campaigning. With millions of Americans struggling for work and the economy stuck in yet another summer slump, President Obama has to run a dishonest campaign because he can't get re-elected on the truth." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 CROWLEY: "The president remains under 50% approval, which isn't a great place as you know for an incumbent. This race has not changed in months despite the fact that both sides and the Obama campaign particularly has been just pouring money into these negative ads — some 60% of your ads have been negative. Your fundraising is lagging behind Romney's. Why?" AXELROD : "Well, let me just correct one thing you said, Candy. 90% of the ads that have been run by Romney and his allies since March have been negative and named at the president, so i think it's a mistake to say that our advertising has somehow been more negative...." CROWLEY: "No, no I just said that yours has been 60% negative." (CNN's "State Of The Union," 7/15/12)
 "About three-quarters of the president's advertising has been critical of Romney as Obama struggles to turn the election into a choice between him and his rival, rather than a referendum on his own handling of the weak economy." (David Espo, "Obama Spending On Attack Ads Soars," 
 7/14/12)
 (Mark Silva, "$10 M Checks, Obama Complains — Yet Look Who's Gone Negative," 
 7/6/12)
 OBAMA: 'Most of the ads are negative and at a certain point, people get discouraged and start feeling like nobody in Washington is listening.' KARL: "That's right. Over the past month, Obama's own campaign has run its ads more than 68,000 times, nearly 80% of them attacking Mitt Romney. Negative and loose with the facts. Take this Obama ad. OBAMA AD: 'Romney's never stood up to China. All he's ever done is send them our jobs.' KARL: 'But that's not true. Romney's former company Bain Capital may have invested in companies with operations in China, but there is no evidence that they shipped any U.S. jobs there under Romney's leadership.'" (ABC's "ABC World News," 7/9/12)
 "Barack Obama's aides and advisers are preparing to center the president's reelection campaign on a ferocious personal assault on Mitt Romney's character and business background, a strategy grounded in the early-stage expectation that the former Massachusetts governor is the likely GOP nominee." (
, 8/9/11)
 (
, 8/9/11)
 "Now, in the throes of a sluggish economic recovery and tight general election race, Obama appears to have resorted to some of the same tactics he once opposed." (
, 7/10/12)
 "Romney's wealth will be the cornerstone of the Obama campaign strategy and he will do everything he can to cast Romney as the villain in this play — the heel who the audience will love to hate. It's an unhappy and intensely negative way to run for re-election, but given the state of the nation and voters views on his policies, it's Obama's best chance to hold the White House." (
, 4/11/12)
 RENDELL: "I think Carol also made a very good point about all this attack may be hurting the President's brand a little bit, too. I think our supporters went a little bit too far with the felony business." (MSNBC's "
," 7/13/12)