"The Obama campaign appears to be stuck in their own 'groundhog day,' repeating the same, debunked charges they've waged for weeks. But these attacks weren't true then, and they're not true now. Americans deserve a president they can trust, and not someone willing to say and do anything to win an election." —Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "But now the Boston Globe has raised the issue again. ... (Interestingly, 'The Real Romney,' a book on the former Massachusetts governor, by Boston Globe reporters, states clearly that he left Bain when he went to run the Olympics and details the turmoil that ensued when he suddenly quit, nearly breaking up the partnership) We're considering whether to once again take a deeper look at this, though it really feels like Groundhog Day again." (Glenn Kessler, "Mitt Romney And His Departure From Bain," 
, 7/12/12)
 "FactCheck.org is standing by their assessment that Mitt Romney did not actively manage Bain Capital after February 1999, despite today's Boston Globe report that he was CEO there until 2002. 'We see little new in the Globe piece. So far nobody has shown that Romney was actually managing Bain (even part-time) during his time at the Olympics, or that he was anything but a passive, absentee owner during that time, as both Romney and Bain have long said,' Brooks Jackson, a co-author of the FactCheck piece, told POLITICO today." (Dylan Byers, "FactCheck.org: 'Little New' In Globe Story," 
, 7/12/12)
 SHAUN BOYD, KCNC-TV (CBS-DENVER): "The Obama campaign is going all out with its latest line of attack. It's launched two new ads claiming Mitt Romney supports outsourcing American jobs. The ads are so similar I'll examine them together." ... BOYD: "Bottom line, jobs are the top issue this election, and many voters are worried about the loss of American jobs to overseas companies, which is why the Obama campaign is spending millions of dollars to convince us Mitt Romney is part of the problem. Problem is: these ads don't bear that out. I'm Shaun Boyd and that's 'Reality Check.'" (
, 7/10/12)
 "Claim: A new ad endorsed by President Barack Obama that is airing on KLAS-TV Channel 8 attacks Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney by stating: 'Newly published documents show Mitt Romney's firms were pioneers at helping companies outsource their manufacturing to countries including China.' ... Verdict: Misleading, but not as much as a similar ad Obama's campaign has run locally that is based on the same Washington Post story." (Steve Kanigher, "Fact Check: Obama Ad Continues Attack On Romney-Bain Connection," 
, 7/10/11)
 "Second, the charge itself is suspect. The independent group FactCheck.org investigated the Post's allegations - and the Obama campaign's ads citing the Post as a source. Their conclusion: ' ... we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney - while he was still running Bain Capital - shipped American jobs overseas.'" (Steve Sebelius, "No Reason To Outsource The Truth In Ads," 
, 7/11/12)
 "But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
 "Yet the campaign clearly seized on this report because their interpretation fit with a long-term "outsourcing" attack they have waged against Romney. One of their outsourcing ads before the article ran, in fact, earned Four Pinocchios. These new ads would not fare much better; there is little in the Post article that backs up the Obama campaign's spin." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's New Attacks On Romney And Outsourcing," 
, 7/2/12)
 "And after reviewing evidence cited by the Obama campaign, we reaffirm our conclusion that Romney left the helm of Bain Capital when he took a leave of absence in 1999 to run the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics — as he has said repeatedly — and never returned to active management. The Obama campaign's recent ads thus mislead when they point to investments made by Bain, as well as management decisions made by companies in which Bain invested, after that time." (Brooks Jackson and Robert Farley, with Eugene Kiely, "FactCheck To Obama Camp: Your Complaint is All Wet," 
, 7/2/12)
 "The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing. Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," 
, 6/21/12)