Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "The Promise of America." It has almost been one year since Mitt Romney announced his campaign for president in Stratham, New Hampshire. Today, as he clinches the delegates needed for the Republican nomination, we look back on this journey to restore the promise of America.
: 
 "[O]ver the last three and a half years, we have seen hopes and dreams diminished by false promises and weak leadership."
 "Americans are tired of being tired."
 "[T]o all of the thousands of good and decent Americans I've met who want nothing more than a better chance, a fighting chance...Hold on a little longer. A better America begins tonight."
 "We launched this campaign not far from here on a beautiful day in June on a farm in New Hampshire."
 "[T]hough each of us will choose to walk a different path in life, we are united by one great, overwhelming passion: We love America. We believe in America."
 "It's been an extraordinary journey."
 "Mitt Romney will win big tonight."
 "We have a moral responsibility to keep America the strongest nation on Earth, the hope of the Earth, the shining city on a hill."
 "Mitt Romney will triumph..."
 "...a huge win..."
 "...a big win for Mitt Romney." (FOX News' "New Hampshire Primary Night Coverage," 1/10/12)
 "This President puts his faith in government. We put our faith in the American people."
 "The former Massachusetts governor dominated across all demographic lines."
 "And when we gather back here in Tampa seven months from now for our convention, ours will be a united party with a winning ticket for America."
 "It is an America driven by freedom, where free people, pursuing happiness in their own unique ways, create free enterprises that employ more and more Americans."
 "I see an America with a growing middle class, with rising standards of living. I see children even more successful than their parents...and others congratulating them for their achievement, not attacking them for it."
 "[J]oin me in the next step toward that destination of November 6th, when across America we can give a sigh of relief and know that the promise of America has been kept. The dreamers can dream a little bigger, the help wanted signs can be dusted off, and we can start again. And this time we'll get it right."
 "Our greatest days are ahead. We are, after all, Americans. God bless this great nation, God bless the United States of America, and God bless you good people. Thank you so much. Thank you."