"Four years ago, President Clinton compared voting for Barack Obama to a roll of the dice. After three and a half years of mounting debt, fewer jobs, and policies that are hostile to jobs creators, it's clear that the gamble didn't pay off. Mitt Romney will take action from day one of his presidency to get our economy moving again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 ROSE: "You want to say to the voters if they are prepared to choose someone with less experience but perhaps other qualities -- as you've said, gifted in politics." CLINTON: "Very gifted." ROSE: "... intellect, then they are rolling the dice is what you are saying." CLINTON: "Well ..." ROSE: "They are rolling the dice about America if they don't choose the person who has had the kind of experience you are talking about." CLINTON: "It's less predictable, isn't it? I mean, when is the last time we elected a president based on one year of service in the Senate before he started running, and he will have been a senator longer by the time he is inaugurated, but essentially once you start running for president full time, you don't have time to do much else." (PBS's "Charlie Rose Show," 12/15/07)
 "Former President Bill Clinton made an unusually direct attack Friday night on Senator Barack Obama, one of his wife's leading rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, suggesting that voters who would support someone with Mr. Obama's experience were willing to 'roll the dice' on the presidency." (Patrick Healy, "Bill Clinton Says Obama Isn't Ready," 
, 12/16/07)
 "'I don't think that we ought to get into the position where we say 'This is bad work. This is good work,' Clinton said. 'The man who has been governor and had a sterling business career crosses the qualification threshold.'" (Byron Tau, "Bill Clinton: Mitt Romney's Business Record 'Sterling',"
, 5/31/12)
 (Byron Tau, "Bill Clinton: Mitt Romney's Business Record 'Sterling'," 
, 5/31/12)
 (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "
," 1/9/09)
 "The nation's jobs picture dimmed in May as employers added just 69,000 jobs and the unemployment rate ticked up to 8.2 percent, a continuation of a long, slow employment recovery that began 33 months ago." (Susanna Kim, "May Unemployment Rises To 8.2 Pct.," 
, 6/1/12)
 ("Highlights Of Obama's $3.8 Trillion Budget," 
, 2/14/12)
 "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," 
, 1/18/12)
 (Dennis Jacobe, "Health Costs, Gov't Regulations Curb Small Business Hiring," 
, 2/15/12)
 "'Business owners remain on edge regarding the tidal wave of federal government regulation that has been advanced or proposed over the past two years. ... The pain of the harsh recession was intensified and lengthened by this hyper-regulatory environment,' Karen Kerrigan, president of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, wrote in a Jan. 12 letter to Issa." (Philip Rucker and David S. Hilzenrath, "GOP Eyes Rules That Firms Say Hurt Jobs," 
 2/7/11)