"In the Obama economy, the government 'invests' taxpayer dollars in boondoggles like Solyndra, while attacking the free market and punishing job creators. Even the Obama White House can't explain the failed results of this strategy – wasted taxpayer dollars and lost jobs. It's no wonder more and more Democrats have shunned President Obama's attacks on free enterprise. You cannot be for jobs, and yet against job creators." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 Q: "If that's the argument how is that different from Romney's argument on Bain Capital which is that many succeeded and a few failed?" CARNEY: "Look...there, there, there is the...the... difference in that, your overall view of what...huh, your responsibilities are as president and what your view of the economic future is. And the president believes as he's made clear that a president's responsibility is not just to, ah, those who win but those who, for example in a company where ah, there have been layoffs or a company that has gone bankrupt, that we have to ah make sure that those folks have the means to find other employment, that they have the ability to train for other kinds of work and that's part of the overall responsibility a president has." (White House Press Secretary Jay Carney, 
, 5/29/12)
 
 (Editorial, "The Energy Department's Loan Guarantee Program Is The Real Solyndra Scandal," 
 11/17/11)
 "In the 1705 government-backed-loan program, for example, $16.4 billion of the $20.5 billion in loans granted as of Sept. 15 went to companies either run by or primarily owned by Obama financial backers-individuals who were bundlers, members of Obama's National Finance Committee, or large donors to the Democratic Party." (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 "The Department of Energy's inspector general, Gregory Friedman, who was not a political appointee, chastised the alternative-energy loan and grant programs for their absence of 'sufficient transparency and accountability.' He has testified that contracts have been steered to 'friends and family.'" (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 "Several of Barack Obama's top campaign supporters went from soliciting political contributions to working from within the Energy Department as it showered billions in taxpayer-backed stimulus money on alternative energy firms, 
 and 
 have learned." (Ronnie Green and Matthew Mosk, "Bundlers On The Inside," 
 9/29/11)
 "At the same time, several politicians who supported Obama managed to strike gold by launching alternative-energy companies and obtaining grants. How much did they get? According to the Department of Energy's own numbers ... a lot." (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 "A few hours earlier, Mr. Obama's campaign had begun a blistering attack on Mitt Romney's career in private equity, the same business in which Mr. James has earned his many millions. .. It is one of the most delicate topics within the party these days. Two Democrats with close ties to Wall Street, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, declined to comment on Wednesday." (Nicholas Confessore, "Bain Strategy Holds Pitfalls For President," 
, 5/23/12)
 "Senator Joe Manchin, West Virginia Democrat, spoke with the Washington Times affiliated radio program America's Morning News on Wednesday. He believes that the private sector was better at picking winners and loser in the free market than government. 'I believe in the free enterprise system. I believe business and labor have to work together. I think if you have a good business, you'll have good workers and if you have good workers then that's a good place to work,' he said. 'I think with the balance that we have, the markets have always done a much better job (in picking winners and losers in the free market) than what we've done in government.'" (Kerry Picket, "Manchin - Private Sector Better At Picking Winners And Losers Than Gov't," 
, 5/24/12)
 "Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), a widely respected member of Congress, stopped short of criticizing the president, but made it clear that the campaign should pivot. 'It's done,' she said. 'Go on to other things now.'" (Cameron Joseph, "Democrats Balk At Obama Campaign's Sustained Attack On Bain Capital," 
, 5/22/12)
 "Pressed on whether he thought Obama's campaign had operated within those guidelines, Coons paused. 'I'm not going to comment on President Obama's ad,' he said, shaking his head vigorously." (Cameron Joseph, "Democrats Balk At Obama Campaign's Sustained Attack On Bain Capital," 
, 5/22/12)
 KING: "You're in a very interesting position this year. I want to start with... You're the governor of a state that Bain Capital calls its global home." ... PATRICK: "Indeed." KING: "Are they a bad company?" PATRICK: "No, they're not a bad company and nobody is saying they are, including the president. It's a remarkable thing." (CNN's "
," 5/22/12)
 "And Rendell joined the chorus of criticism of Obama's attacks on finance, whose leaders have written checks to many members of both parties. 'I think they're very disappointing,' Rendell said of the ads attacking Bain." (Zeke Miller, "Is This Obama's Party?," 
, 5/22/12)
 "Former Tennessee Rep. Harold Ford said Monday that he would not have walked back New Jersey Mayor Cory Booker's surprising comments criticizing the Obama campaign for attacking private equity. 'I would not have backed off the comments if I were Mayor Booker,' Ford, a Democrat, said on MSNBC's 'Morning Joe.' 'The substance of his comments on 'Meet the Press,' I agree with the core of it. I would not have backed them out... private equity's not a bad thing. As a matter of fact, private equity is a good thing in many, many instances.'" (Tim Mak, "Ex-Rep. Ford: Booker Was Right," 
, 5/21/12)
 BOOKER: "I have to say from a very personal level I'm not about to sit here and indict private equity. To me, it's just, we're getting to a ridiculous point in America. Especially, I know, I live in a state where pension funds, unions and other people are investing in companies like Bain Capital. If you look at the totality of Bain Capital's record, they've done a lot to support businesses, to grow businesses, and this to me, I'm very uncomfortable with." (NBC's 
 5/20/12)