"There is no question but that [President Obama] is attacking capitalism. In part, I think, because he doesn't understand how the free economy works. He's never had a job in the free economy. Neither has Vice President Biden. They spent their lives as either community organizers or as members of the political class." –
, "Fox & Friends," 5/24/12
In Des Moines, Iowa, tonight, Barack Obama continued his assaults on free enterprise despite the fact that 14 Democrats have repudiated his campaign strategy. Check out the rundown below:
 "A few hours earlier, Mr. Obama's campaign had begun a blistering attack on Mitt Romney's career in private equity, the same business in which Mr. James has earned his many millions. .. It is one of the most delicate topics within the party these days. Two Democrats with close ties to Wall Street, Senators Charles E. Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, declined to comment on Wednesday." (Nicholas Confessore, "Bain Strategy Holds Pitfalls For President," 
, 5/23/12)
 "Senator Joe Manchin, West Virginia Democrat, spoke with the Washington Times affiliated radio program America's Morning News on Wednesday. He believes that the private sector was better at picking winners and loser in the free market than government. 'I believe in the free enterprise system. I believe business and labor have to work together. I think if you have a good business, you'll have good workers and if you have good workers then that's a good place to work,' he said. 'I think with the balance that we have, the markets have always done a much better job (in picking winners and losers in the free market) than what we've done in government.'" (Kerry Picket, "Manchin - Private Sector Better At Picking Winners And Losers Than Gov't," 
, 5/24/12)
 "Private equity firms often invest in distressed companies by putting in cash and cutting expenses in order to save a company that is already close to bankruptcy. Sometimes the investment works and the company and jobs are saved. And sometimes, to save the company, jobs need to be cut or wages and benefits reduced." (Lanny Davis, Op-Ed, "Cory Booker Got It Right," 
, 5/23/12)
 "Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), a widely respected member of Congress, stopped short of criticizing the president, but made it clear that the campaign should pivot. 'It's done,' she said. 'Go on to other things now.'" (Cameron Joseph, "Democrats Balk At Obama Campaign's Sustained Attack On Bain Capital," 
, 5/22/12)
 "Pressed on whether he thought Obama's campaign had operated within those guidelines, Coons paused. 'I'm not going to comment on President Obama's ad,' he said, shaking his head vigorously." (Cameron Joseph, "Democrats Balk At Obama Campaign's Sustained Attack On Bain Capital," 
, 5/22/12)
 KING: "You're in a very interesting position this year. I want to start with... You're the governor of a state that Bain Capital calls its global home." ... PATRICK: "Indeed." KING: "Are they a bad company?" PATRICK: "No, they're not a bad company and nobody is saying they are, including the president. It's a remarkable thing." (CNN's "
," 5/22/12)
 "And Rendell joined the chorus of criticism of Obama's attacks on finance, whose leaders have written checks to many members of both parties. 'I think they're very disappointing,' Rendell said of the ads attacking Bain." (Zeke Miller, "Is This Obama's Party?," 
, 5/22/12)
 DAVIS: "It's hard to imagine a more instructive couple of days for those who want to know where the Democratic Party's head is at: its only high-profile African American moderate just got a brushback pitch for leaning in too close to the Independent thought zone; the Obama camp looks ominously like a cult of personality that tolerates no dissent; and the reelection campaign just doubled down on the European leftist notion that business is fair only when it operates in a sanitized, risk free manner." (Artur Davis, "Should Democrats Stop Bain Capital Attacks?" 
, 5/22/12)
 "Former Tennessee Rep. Harold Ford said Monday that he would not have walked back New Jersey Mayor Cory Booker's surprising comments criticizing the Obama campaign for attacking private equity. 'I would not have backed off the comments if I were Mayor Booker,' Ford, a Democrat, said on MSNBC's 'Morning Joe.' 'The substance of his comments on 'Meet the Press,' I agree with the core of it. I would not have backed them out... private equity's not a bad thing. As a matter of fact, private equity is a good thing in many, many instances.'" (Tim Mak, "Ex-Rep. Ford: Booker Was Right," 
, 5/21/12)
 BOOKER: "I have to say from a very personal level I'm not about to sit here and indict private equity. To me, it's just, we're getting to a ridiculous point in America. Especially, I know, I live in a state where pension funds, unions and other people are investing in companies like Bain Capital. If you look at the totality of Bain Capital's record, they've done a lot to support businesses, to grow businesses, and this to me, I'm very uncomfortable with." (NBC's 
 5/20/12)
 (MSNBC's "
," 5/22/12)
 "Former Obama administration auto czar Steven Rattner said Monday that the Obama campaign's renewed attack on Mitt Romney's time in private equity was 'unfair.' 'I think the ad is unfair.' Rattner said. ... '[Bain Capital] did it superbly well, acting within the rules, acting very responsibly,' Rattner said. 'This is part of capitalism, this is part of life. I don't think there's anything Bain Capital did that they need to be embarrassed about.'" (Byron Tau, "Ex-Obama Adviser: Latest Anti-Romney Ad Is 'Unfair'," 
, 5/14/12)
 "Peebles, who is sometimes described as the largest-scale African-American real estate developer in the country, told BuzzFeed that he was wary of the ads by the Obama campaign and the pro-Obama Super PAC Priorities USA which have attacked Bain Capital. 'Any type of attack and vilification of a particular industry is not okay to begin with,' he said." (Zeke Miller, "Obama Bundler Decries 'Villification' Of Private Equity," 
, 5/15/12)