"President Obama has promised to get our economy moving again – but he's proposed a slew of disastrous economic policies for his second term that will only harm job creators. On Day One, Mitt Romney will help put Americans back to work by reforming the tax code, cutting tax rates across the board, and eliminating the regulatory burdens facing American small businesses." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 "By contrast, President Obama's proposal yesterday (see below) to cut the corporate rate to 28% from 35% wouldn't apply to this 'pass-through' business income. It would thus favor big corporations at the expense of smaller businesses that file as individuals and would see their marginal rate rise to 41% or more under Mr. Obama's plan to raise individual tax rates." (Editorial, "Romney's Tax Reboot," 
, 2/23/12)
 "Pending rules in the White House pipeline would position a re-elected President Barack Obama to outpace his predecessor with second-term rulemaking, according to a review of regulatory filings. Obama has delayed until after the election decisions on regulating ozone levels and rearview cameras for cars. Rules still need to be written to carry out much of Obama's signature first-term domestic policy initiatives, the health-care overhaul and the Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry." (Andrew Zajac, "Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," 
 3/15/12)
 "The ozone rule would cost $19 billion to $90 billion in 2020, according to the White House. The Obama administration puts the cost of rearview cameras at $2.7 billion. A Bloomberg Government study in July found that four provisions of the Dodd- Frank law may cost banks and other financial services companies $22 billion, with hundreds of rules yet to be written." (Andrew Zajac, "Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," 
 3/15/12)
 "Obama has an ambitious second-term agenda, which, at least in broad ways, his campaign is beginning to highlight. The President has said that the most important policy he could address in his second term is climate change..." (Ryan Lizza, "The Second Term," 
, 6/11/12)
 OBAMA: "We're going to have to make more progress on clean energy. We've doubled clean energy production over the last three and a half years. We've got to do more to make sure that we are the most energy-efficient country in the world. And we can do it." (President Barack Obama, 
, San Francisco, CA, 6/6/12)
 "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," 
, 4/20/12)
 "I will lower taxes to lighten the burden on middle-income Americans and to reignite the economy. A key measure will be an across-the-board, 20% reduction in marginal individual income tax rates. By reducing the tax on the next dollar of income earned by all taxpayers, we will encourage hard work and productivity by allowing Americans to keep more of what they earn." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Restoring The American Promise," 
, 3/5/12)
 (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Newspaper Association Of America, Washington, D.C., 4/4/12)
 "Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, has proposed a 'regulatory cap' on federal agencies that requires them to calculate the cost of new rules and offset that cost with reductions to existing rules." (Jason Noble, "Candidates Emphasize Cutting Taxes, Rules," 
, 11/19/11)
 "I also will partner closely with our neighbors. Canada and Mexico have extraordinary resources of their own that can provide secure, reliable supplies for our economy. This starts with my approval of the Keystone XL pipeline on Day One." (Mitt Romney, "U.S. Can Be Energy Superpower," 
, 3/5/12