Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "The Best Of America." It wasn't too long ago that the quiet heroes of this land walked tall with the pride of knowing that they lived in a country like no other. On this Independence Day, we celebrate that sense of American optimism and recommit ourselves to bringing that feeling back to us once again.
: 
 "I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."
 "Everywhere I go, I meet people who represent the best of America. They are hopeful, hard-working, determined and proud."
 "These Americans are quiet heroes. They raise strong families, run our factories, and grow our food. They coach Little League and soccer. They serve on the PTA. Their volunteers help our neighbors. And they dream big dreams..."
 "The vision and the values, the character and the can-do spirit that you find in our small towns have made America great."
 "This is the America known for thriving farms and factories. For prosperous towns and cities and great colleges and universities. For solid communities and churches. All of them born out of American optimism; nourished and sustained by hard work and a belief that the American future is one of the limitless possibilities and that opportunity is an American birthright."
 "There was a time — not so long ago — when each of us could walk a little taller and stand a little straighter because we had a gift that no one else in the world shared. We were Americans."
 "It's a celebration of what we have the opportunity to do every day."
 "We knew it without question. And so did the world."
 "It makes me think about all the people that came before me who fought, so that I could have this freedom."
 "The spirit that has brought this country together."
 "Those days are coming back. That's our destiny."
 "There's no place in the world that I'd like to live other than where I am, in America."
 "[F]rom now until November, our campaign will carry a simple message: America's greatest days are yet ahead."
 "July 4, 2012"