"Four years ago, President Obama promised he would deliver millions of new jobs from clean energy investments. But after thousands of layoffs and hundreds of millions in wasted taxpayer dollars, it's clear President Obama's failed energy policies have left the economy upside down. From Day One, Mitt Romney will deliver a new direction that won't gamble with taxpayer money and will put Americans back to work." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "But the millions of 'green jobs' Obama promised have been slow to sprout, disappointing many who had hoped that the $90 billion earmarked for clean-energy efforts in the recession-fighting federal stimulus package would ease unemployment - still above 8 percent in March." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," 
, 4/13/12)
 "But the millions of 'green jobs' Obama promised have been slow to sprout, disappointing many who had hoped that the $90 billion earmarked for clean-energy efforts in the recession-fighting federal stimulus package would ease unemployment - still above 8 percent in March." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," 
, 4/13/12)
 "In the Bay Area as in much of the country, the green economy is not proving to be the job-creation engine that many politicians envisioned. President Obama once pledged to create five million green jobs over 10 years. Gov. Jerry Brown promised 500,000 clean-technology jobs statewide by the end of the decade. But the results so far suggest such numbers are a pipe dream." (Aaron Glantz, "Number Of Green Jobs Fails To Live Up To Promises," 
, 8/18/11)
 (Editorial, "The Non-Green Job Boom," 
 11/28/11)
 "The bonuses and bankruptcies come against a growing wave of trouble for companies financed with Energy Department dollars. Of the first 12 loan guarantees the department announced, for instance, two firms filed for bankruptcy, a third has faced layoffs and a fourth deal never closed." (Ronnie Greene and Matthew Mosk, "Green Firms Get Fed Cash, Give Execs Bonuses, Fail," 
, 3/6/12)
 "On the day it closed, Solyndra said it was laying off 1,100 full-time and temporary employees. But 1,861 workers lost their jobs as the solar panel manufacturer shut its doors, according to U.S. Labor Department documents provided to The Bay Citizen under the Freedom of Information Act. ... Analysts said the revelations are likely to add new fuel to the partisan fire surrounding the demise of Solyndra, which received a $535 million federal loan guarantee from the U.S. Department of Energy in 2009." (Aaron Glantz, "Solyndra Layoffs Larger Than Previously Reported," 
, 6/13/12)
 "In September, Secretary Chu announced a $528.7 million conditional loan for Fisker Automotive for the development of two lines of plug-in hybrids, which will save hundreds of millions gallons of gasoline and offset millions of tons of carbon pollution by 2016. Of the total loan, $359 million is going to revive manufacturing at the Boxwood Plant. The Boxwood Plant will support Fisker Automotive's Project NINA, the development and build of a mass-market plug-in hybrid sedan." (Press Release, "Vice President Biden Announces Reopening Of Former GM Boxwood Plant," 
, 10/27/09)
 "Another energy firm backed by the Obama administration appears to be headed toward collapse. This time it's a Nevada geothermal company that benefited from a $98.5 million federal loan guarantee that's in the spotlight. Auditors for Nevada Geothermal Power have doubts about whether the company can stay afloat, the Washington Times reported Thursday, citing an internal audit of the firm." (Zack Colman, "Another Obama-Backed Energy Firm May Be Close To Collapse," 
, 7/5/12)
 "On Friday, advanced battery maker A123 Systems, the recipient of a $249 million federal stimulus grant, informed investors that it had just five months worth of cash left to fund itself. While it's a bit early to start administering last rites, the company's situation is looking pretty funereal. A123's share price is down to just about $1 from an all-time high of more than $25 in 2009." (Jordan Weissmann, "Another Solyndra In The Making?," 
, 7/9/12)