"Americans are struggling in a 'zombie economy' and President Obama's only answer is to pass one of the largest tax hikes in history. President Obama's tax increases on families and job creators will create more economic uncertainty and fewer opportunities for struggling middle-class families. From Day One, Mitt Romney will take action to lower marginal rates, help middle-class Americans save and invest, and jumpstart economic growth and job creation." —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (Patti Domm, "Signs We Are Approaching A Zombie Economy," 
, 7/6/12)
 "The American job machine has jammed. Again. The economy added only 80,000 jobs in June, the government said Friday, erasing any doubt that the United States is in a summer slump for the third year in a row." (Paul Wiseman, "US Economy Adds 80,000 Jobs In Another Weak Month," 
, 7/7/12)
 "U.S. employers hired at a dismal pace in June, raising pressure on the Federal Reserve to do more to boost the economy and further imperiling President Barack Obama's chances of reelection in November." (Jason Lange, "U.S. Hiring Stuck In Low Gear In June," 
, 7/6/12)
 HARWOOD: "Just 80,000 jobs added in the month of June, Michelle. 8.2% unemployment rate, unchanged, 12.7 million unemployed people, also unchanged. That makes the second quarter the weakest job-adding quarter in two years, an average of 75,000 jobs added in the second quarter of this year." (CNBC's "Squawk Box," 7/6/12)
 "President Obama unveiled part two of his American Jobs Act on Monday, and it turns out to be another permanent increase in taxes to pay for more spending and another temporary tax cut. No surprise there. What might surprise Americans, however, is how the President is setting up the U.S. economy for one of the biggest tax increases in history in 2013." (Editorial, "The 2013 Tax Cliff," 
, 9/14/11)
 "By contrast, President Obama's proposal yesterday (see below) to cut the corporate rate to 28% from 35% wouldn't apply to this 'pass-through' business income. It would thus favor big corporations at the expense of smaller businesses that file as individuals and would see their marginal rate rise to 41% or more under Mr. Obama's plan to raise individual tax rates." (Editorial, "Romney's Tax Reboot," 
, 2/23/12)
 (CBO Director Douglas W. Elmendorf, 
, U.S. House Of Representatives, 3/30/11)
 "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," 
, 9/7/11)