The Obama Economy Isn't The Only Thing That's Upside Down — The View From The White House Is, Too
 WRAL's DEBRA MORGAN: "North Carolina has an unemployment rate of 9.4%. It's the fourth highest in the country and a lot of people I talked to in North Carolina just don't have a good feeling about the economy. How do you change that?" (
, Raleigh, NC, 7/9/12)
 "Speaking at a campaign event, President Obama told supporters that this morning's worse-than-expected jobs report marks a 'step in the right direction.' ... Before the report, economists had projected around 90,000 new jobs were created in June, so the report was a disappointment. The economy needs to create around 150,000 jobs a month just to keep up with population growth." (Mary Bruce, "Obama: Jobs Report Is 'Step In The Right Direction,'" 
, 7/6/12)
 WLKY's VICKI DORTCH: "People in Kentucky are angry. They want change. They are losing their jobs, they aren't getting paid enough. The unemployment rate in Kentucky is 8.6 percent. Higher than the national average. What can you do in the next four years to change this? Why should we reelect you?" (
, Louisville, KY, 7/9/12)
 FOX's CHRIS WALLACE: "The President gave a major economic speech this week in Ohio ... But there was, forgive me, nothing new. Is that the President's agenda for the next four years? ... Is the President's agenda for the next four years more of the same?" SENIOR ADVISER DAVID PLOUFFE: "Well, what is — it's what this country needs to do." ... WALLACE: "But would you agree, there's no new agenda beyond what he's been pushing for the last year." PLOUFFE: "This is the direction he thinks the country needs to go." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 6/17/12)
 WWL-TV's KAREN SWENSEN: "When you took office, in New Orleans the unemployment rate was 6.1 percent. It's now at 7.2 percent. We've had 4,000 people lose their jobs just between April and May. What would you say to those constituents, to those voters who would say I'm not better off, with all due respect, than I was four years ago, I'm worse?" (
, New Orleans, LA, 7/9/12)
 OBAMA: "The private sector is doing fine. Where we're seeing weaknesses in our economy have to do with state and local government — often times, cuts initiated by governors or mayors who are not getting the kind of help that they have in the past from the federal government..." (President Barack Obama, 
, Washington, DC, 6/8/12)