"Candidate Obama promised to restore the American dream for millions of Hispanics. But, nearly four years later, it's clear President Obama hasn't lived up to his promise. Millions of Hispanics remain unemployed and Hispanic-owned businesses are struggling under President Obama's job-destroying policies. From day one of his presidency, Mitt Romney will enact policies that get our economy moving again for Hispanics and all Americans." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "And we can do something more. We can tear down the barriers that keep the American dream out of reach for so many Americans. We can end the housing crisis and create millions of new jobs. ... But I can't do this on my own. I need your help. This election could well come down to how many Latinos turn out to vote." (Sen. Barack Obama, 
, Washington, DC, 6/28/08)
 "Since its inception, the USHCC has worked towards bringing the issues and concerns of the nation's almost 3 million Hispanic-owned businesses to the forefront of the national economic agenda." (US Hispanic Chamber Of Commerce Website, 
, Accessed 6/3/12)
 "It should also be noted that many small business owners who change or drop their employee health care coverage will be personally hurt. For example, a Hispanic small business owner who has been in business for over 20 years in Colorado and employs close to 200 employees stated that after becoming more aware of the new requirements imposed by ObamaCare, he believes his business cannot afford the new mandates. He further stated it would be cheaper to just pay the fines, thereby requiring his employees to use government-run health care." (Michael L. Barrera, "Challenges Faced By Small Business Due To Obamacare," 
, 12/26/11)
 "By contrast, President Obama's proposal yesterday (see below) to cut the corporate rate to 28% from 35% wouldn't apply to this 'pass-through' business income. It would thus favor big corporations at the expense of smaller businesses that file as individuals and would see their marginal rate rise to 41% or more under Mr. Obama's plan to raise individual tax rates." (Editorial, "Romney's Tax Reboot," 
, 2/23/12)
 "'Business owners remain on edge regarding the tidal wave of federal government regulation that has been advanced or proposed over the past two years. ... The pain of the harsh recession was intensified and lengthened by this hyper-regulatory environment,' Karen Kerrigan, president of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, wrote in a Jan. 12 letter to Issa." (Philip Rucker and David S. Hilzenrath, "GOP Eyes Rules That Firms Say Hurt Jobs," 
 2/7/11)
 "The national unemployment rate for Latinos rose to a bleak 11 percent in May, almost 3 points higher than the national average of 8.2 percent, according to new numbers released Friday by the Bureau of Labor and Statistics. Since the last report, the Hispanic unemployment rate increased from 10.3 Percent to 11.0 Percent." (Serafin Gómez, "Unemployment Jumps To 11 Percent Among Latinos, Report Says," 
,6/1/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 6/3/12)
 (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," 
, 1/26/12)
 "Large shares report that they or someone in their household has been out of work in the past year (59%); that their personal finances are in 'only fair' or "poor" shape (75%); that they canceled or delayed a major purchase in the past year (49%); or that they are underwater on their mortgage (28% of Latino homeowners)." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," 
, 1/26/12)
 (People With Income Below Specified Ratios Of Their Poverty Thresholds By Selected Characteristics, 2008, 
, 9/10/2009; People And Families In Poverty By Selected Characteristics: 2009 And 2010, 
, 9/13/11)