"President Obama campaigned for office on a very specific promise to decrease health care premiums by $2,500. By his own standard, the President has failed and middle-class families are the ones suffering the consequences. It's time for President Obama to take responsibility for his middle-class promise gap. And it's time for a new direction and new president who will finally deliver change for struggling middle-class families." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "If you are ready for change, then we can stop talking about the outrage of 47 million people without health insurance and start doing something about it. ... If you've got health insurance, we're going to work with you to lower your premiums by $2,500 per family per year. And we will not wait 20 years from now to do it or 10 years from now to do it. We will do it by the end of my first term as president of the United States of America." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Columbus, OH, 2/27/08)
 Average annual family premiums have increased from $12,680 in 2008 to $15,073 in 2011. ("Employer Health Benefits, 2011 Annual Survey, Exhibit 1.11" 
, 2011)
 "The video released by the Obama campaign Thursday has a graph that shows health insurance premiums climbing and climbing — way above general inflation. Giving families and businesses relief was a big part of Obama's sales pitch for health care reform. ... But no matter what happens with the law, the line on that graph isn't going to go down." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 OBAMA: "I don't believe we should give government or the insurance companies more control over health care in America." (President Barack Obama, 
, Fairfax, VA, 3/19/10)
 "The vehicle is a bill from Tennessee Republican Phil Roe that would repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, the new ObamaCare bureaucracy with vast powers to control health care and health markets starting next year." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," 
, 3/9/12)
 "Instead, supposedly independent experts will run a battery of small experiments, figure out which ones 'work' and then impose them through Medicare's price controls on all U.S. medicine. When health spending in a given year exceeds a budget benchmark, as it always does and will, the 15 White House-appointed wise men will work their miracles." (Editorial, "Independent Payment Advisory Revolt," 
, 3/9/12)
 "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," 
, 1/18/12)
 "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," 
, 7/11/11)
 "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," 
, 9/7/11)