"From prominent Democrats on Capitol Hill to President Obama's own running mate, Democrats are increasingly leery about standing with President Obama's assessment that the private sector is 'doing fine.' With millions of Americans struggling for work and new warning signs from manufacturers and small businesses, Americans need a new direction and a new president." —Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (CSPAN's "
," 7/1/12)
 "Vice President Joe Biden today offered a blunt assessment of the plight of the unemployed, telling supporters at a campaign rally in Iowa that the economy remains "a depression for millions and millions of Americans." ... 'It's a depression for millions and millions of Americans,' he said." (Devin Dwyer, "Biden: Economy Feels Like A 'Depression For Millions'," 
, 6/27/12)
 "Former President Bill Clinton told CNBC Tuesday that the US economy already is in a recession and urged Congress to extend all the tax cuts due to expire at the end of the year. ... 'They're still pretty low, the government spending levels. But I think they look high because there's a recession,' [Clinton] said." (Jeff Cox, "US Already In 'Recession,' Extend Tax Cuts: Bill Clinton," 
, 6/5/12)
 "Stocks dropped following news that the ISM manufacturing index dropped to its lowest level in almost two years and amid worries over weakness in China limited gains. ... On the economic front, the U.S. ISM manufacturing index contracted unexpectedly for the first time since July 2009, with the index sliding to 49.7 in June from May's 53.5. Economists had expected a reading of 52.0." (Jee Yeon Park, "Stocks Slide After Disappointing ISM Report," 
, 7/2/12)
 "Unemployment ebbs and flows, but one measure of the nation's economic health, average weekly wages, rarely dips. Until now. In the latest demonstration of the struggling economy that threatens President Obama's reelection, average weekly wages fell in 2011, one of only five declines since the category was created in 1978 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics." (Paul Bedard, "Wages Drop, Only 5th Time In 33 Years," 
, 7/2/12)
 "Small businesses have lowered their hiring expectations as their confidence in the economy has fallen into another mid-year slump, a new survey showed on Monday. Vistage International, which represents small business owners, said its confidence index fell to 92.8 in the second quarter from 105.1 in the first three months of 2012, which had been its highest level in a year." (Anna Louie Sussman, "For Small U.S. Firms, Lower Hiring Expectations For Next 12 Months," 
, 7/2/12)
 "Job growth has tumbled, consumers are less confident and Europe's financial crisis has dampened demand for U.S. exports. Most economists don't see growth accelerating much from the first-quarter pace, although some are hopeful that lower gas prices could help lift consumer spending over the summer. (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Tepid Economic Growth Weighs On US Job Market," 
 6/28/12)