"When President Obama brings his 'doing fine' message to Ohio today, he'll need to answer for five years' worth of broken promises to Cuyahoga's students. As middle-class families struggle, the economy lags, and our national debt explodes, it's clear to everyone – except President Obama – that he hasn't lived up to his own promises. On Day One of his presidency, Mitt Romney will take immediate steps to get the economy moving again and put Americans back to work." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Obama is scheduled to speak at the Cuyahoga Community College Metropolitan Campus in Cleveland Thursday just five minutes prior to when Romney himself is set to begin an event in Cincinnati. This is the first time the president and the presumptive GOP candidate will hold public campaign events in the same state on the same day." (Emily Friedman, "Romney Predicts Obama Will Change Course In Ohio Speech, Says 'Words Are Cheap'," 
, 6/13/12)
 OBAMA: "If we fail to accept the challenge, then we find ourselves perhaps the first generation in a very long time in which our children and our grandchildren inherit an America that's a little poorer and a little leaner than the one that we received from our parents. Now that's unacceptable, that's un-American." (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks at Cuyahoga Community College, Highland Hills, OH, 2/26/07)
 OBAMA: "And, Ohio, we have done that. The economy is growing again. The financial markets have stabilized. The private sector has created jobs for the last eight months in a row. And there are roughly 3 million Americans who are working today because of the economic plan we put into place." (President Barack Obama, 
, Parma, OH, 9/8/10)
 OBAMA: "But I am absolutely committed to fiscal responsibility, which is why I've already proposed freezing all discretionary spending unrelated to national security for the next three years. And once the bipartisan fiscal commission finishes its work, I'll spend the next year making the tough choices necessary to further reduce our deficit and lower our debt -- whether I get help from the other side or not." (President Barack Obama, 
, Parma, OH, 9/8/10)