"What the Court did not do on its last day in session I will do on my first day if elected President of the United States. And that is I will act to repeal Obamacare. ... Obamacare was bad policy yesterday. It's bad policy today. Obamacare was bad law yesterday. It's bad law today." – Mitt Romney
 "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," 
, 1/18/12)
 "Keep in mind that Mr. Obama has already signed the largest tax increase since 1993. While everyone focuses on the Bush tax rates that expire after 2012, other tax increases are already set to hit the economy thanks to the 2010 Affordable Care Act." (Editorial, "Taxes Upon Taxes Upon...," 
, 7/11/11)
 "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," 
, 9/7/11)
 (CMS Chief Actuary Richard S. Foster, "Estimated Financial Effects Of The 'Patient Protection And Affordable Care Act,' As Amended," 
, 4/22/10)
 "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," 
, 1/4/12)
 "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 "Days before President Obama's signature healthcare law goes in front of the Supreme Court, GOP front-runner Mitt Romney vowed to repeal and replace the law, speaking to a supportive crowd in a suburb of New Orleans. 'It's critical that we repeal Obamacare and, by the way, also replace it,' he said. 'I think I'm the only person in this race who's laid out what I would replace it with.'" (Alana Semuels, "Romney Vows To Repeal And Replace 'Obamacare' On Law's Anniversary," 
, 3/23/12)
 "The reforms I propose for the country could not be more different from Barack Obama's. They entail no new taxes, no massive diversions of funds away from Medicare, no tax discrimination, and no new bureaucracies." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Why I'd Repeal Obamacare," 
, 3/23/12)
 "Whatever the Supreme Court decides about the constitutionality of Obamacare, we already know that it is bad policy and wrong for America. Abolishing it and putting sensible changes in its place will be one of my highest priorities as president." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Why I'd Repeal Obamacare," 
, 3/23/12)
 "Romney said he plans to give a waiver to all 50 states discontinuing the president's plan – known formally as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act -- and returning healthcare responsibilities to the states. He wants to take Medicaid money administered by the federal government and give it to states as block grants." (Alana Semuels, "Romney Vows To Repeal And Replace 'Obamacare' On Law's Anniversary," 
, 3/23/12)
 "[Romney's] plan also includes giving individuals the same tax break that companies get when they buy insurance for their employees, allowing individuals to buy insurance across state lines, and encouraging consumers to shop around for the least expensive medical services, creating competition among healthcare providers." (Alana Semuels, "Romney Vows To Repeal And Replace 'Obamacare' On Law's Anniversary," 
, 3/23/12)