"Last month, President Obama's fellow Democrats deserted his shameful attacks on free enterprise. Now, with the President doubling down on his misleading attacks, even more Democrats are jumping ship – this time from the President's own Democratic convention. As president, Mitt Romney will unite all Americans around pro-growth policies that will jumpstart our economy." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "Claire McCaskill will not be attending the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, a McCaskill aide confirmed to TPM Tuesday." (Pema Levy, "Claire McCaskill Will Not Attend Democratic National Convention," 
, 6/26/12)
 "Augusta U.S. Rep. John Barrow will skip the Democratic National Convention in September, adding to a growing list of Democrats distancing themselves from the national party's major quadrennial get-together." (Daniel Malloy, "Barrow To Skip Democratic National Convention," 
, 6/26/12)
 "Heitkamp joins a growing list of Democratic Senate candidates opting out of Charlotte, including Arizona Senate candidate Richard Carmona, Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., and Sen. Joe Manchin, D-W.Va." (Julie Sobel, "Heitkamp Skipping Dem Convention," 
, 6/26/12)
 (Julie Sobel, "Heitkamp Skipping Dem Convention," 
, 6/26/12)
 "West Virginia's top three Democrats will not attend their party's national convention in September, the West Virginia Democratic Party said Monday. U.S. Sen. Joe Manchin, Gov. Earl Ray Tomblin and U.S. Rep. Nick Rahall do not plan to help pick President Barack Obama as their party's nominee." (Ry Rivard, "Manchin, Tomblin, Rahall Not Going To Democratic National Convention," 
 6/18/12)
 "U.S. Rep. Mark Critz said on Tuesday he will skip the Democratic National Convention in favor of campaigning in Pennsylvania, much like top elected Democrats in neighboring West Virginia who are disgruntled with President Obama." (Selena Zito, "Rep. Mark Critz, Other Dems, To Skip Convention In Favor Of Campaigning In Pennsylvania," 
 6/20/12)
 "At least half a dozen Democratic officials have said in recent days that they won't attend the Democratic National Convention this September in Charlotte, North Carolina, where the president will formally receive the party's nomination for a second term. The latest: New York Democratic Reps. Bill Owens and Kathy Hochul, both of whom won special elections in recent years – in 2009 and 2011, respectively – that were heralded by party leaders." (Dan Hirschhorn, "Bucking Convention," 
, 6/20/12)
 (Cameron Joseph, "Dem Rep. Matheson Will Skip Democratic National Convention," 
 6/21/12)
 "Tester's campaign quickly followed suit to say they would skip the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, N.C., which is the week after the GOP gathering." (Cameron Joseph And David Kaner, "Montana Senate Candidates Will Skip Parties' Conventions," 
, 6/25/12)