 
"On education, Romney, over the Legislature's objections, instituted the Adams Scholarship program, which offers tuition-free scholarships at public colleges to students whose MCAS scores place them in the top 25 percent of students in their district." (Scott Helman, "Romney Exits With Pomp, Ambition," 
, 1/4/07)
 "Romney also vetoed a number of outside sections of the budget, including: ... A moratorium on the opening of five new charter schools in North Adams, Lynn, Salem, Marlborough and Cambridge." (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs $22.402B Fiscal Year 2005 'No New Tax' Budget," Press Release, 6/25/04)
 "Romney spoke after granting charters to three new schools and extending the charters of eight other schools. The new schools are the Fall River Maritime Academy Public Charter School; the Pioneer Charter School of Science, which will serve students in Chelsea, Everett and Revere; and the New Bedford Global Learning Charter School. ... With the new additions, there will be 61 charter schools in Massachusetts in the fall of 2007. There are currently 23,000 students enrolled, with a waiting list of 15,000." ("Romney Celebrates Charter Schools As He Adds Three, Extends Eight," 
, 5/3/06)
 "On the issue of education, Romney renewed his call for a package of bills he sent to the Legislature last fall. He wants to give bonuses to science and math teachers, Advanced Placement teachers, and the top one-third 'most successful teachers in each school.'" (Scott S. Greenberger and Scott Helman, "Romney Proposes $200M For Health," 
, 1/19/06)
 "He has also proposed allowing the state to intervene more quickly in schools with sagging test scores and giving principals more authority to hire, fire, and deploy teachers." (Scott S. Greenberger and Scott Helman, "Romney Proposes $200M For Health," 
, 1/19/06)
 "The National Assessment of Educational Progress, a comprehensive reading and math examination given to hundreds of thousands of students periodically since 1990, including in 2003 and last spring, was the first nationwide exam to allow a direct comparison between two successive test administrations since Mr. Bush signed the law in January 2002. ... The test results pointed to some clear standouts. Massachusetts students outperformed those of every other state in both reading and math at the two levels tested." ("Bush Education Law Shows Mixed Results In First Test," 
, 10/20/05)