"We welcome the Obama campaign's attempt to pivot back to jobs and a discussion of their failed record. President Obama has many questions to answer as to why his Administration used the stimulus to reward wealthy campaign donors with taxpayer money for bad ideas like Solyndra, but 23 million Americans are still struggling to find jobs. If the Obama Administration was less concerned with pleasing its wealthy donors and more concerned with creating jobs, America would be much better off." –Andrea Saul, Romney Spokesperson
 
 (Editorial, "The Energy Department's Loan Guarantee Program Is The Real Solyndra Scandal," 
 11/17/11)
 "Several of Barack Obama's top campaign supporters went from soliciting political contributions to working from within the Energy Department as it showered billions in taxpayer-backed stimulus money on alternative energy firms, 
 and 
 have learned." (Ronnie Green And Matthew Mosk, "Bundlers On The Inside," 
 9/29/11)
 "At the same time, several politicians who supported Obama managed to strike gold by launching alternative-energy companies and obtaining grants. How much did they get? According to the Department of Energy's own numbers ... a lot." (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 "The Government Accountability Office has been highly critical of the way guaranteed loans and grants were doled out by the Department of Energy, complaining that the process appears 'arbitrary' and lacks transparency. In March 2011, for example, the GAO examined the first 18 loans that were approved and found that none were properly documented." (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 "The Department of Energy's inspector general, Gregory Friedman, who was not a political appointee, chastised the alternative-energy loan and grant programs for their absence of 'sufficient transparency and accountability.' He has testified that contracts have been steered to 'friends and family.'" (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 (Carol D. Leonnig and Joe Stephens, "Venture Capitalists Play Key Role In Obama's Energy Department," 
, 2/14/12)
 "Solar panel maker Solyndra received a $528 million Energy Department loan in 2009 – and went bankrupt last year. The government's risky investment strategy didn't stop there, as a CBS News investigation has uncovered a pattern of cases of the government pouring your tax dollars into clean energy." (Sharyl Attkisson, "Tax Dollars Backing Some "Risky" Energy Projects," 
, 1/13/12)
 "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," 
, 9/1/11)
 "The bonuses and bankruptcies come against a growing wave of trouble for companies financed with Energy Department dollars. Of the first 12 loan guarantees the department announced, for instance, two firms filed for bankruptcy, a third has faced layoffs and a fourth deal never closed." (Ronnie Greene and Matthew Mosk, "Green Firms Get Fed Cash, Give Execs Bonuses, Fail," 
, 3/6/12)
 (Editorial, "The Non-Green Jobs Boom," 
, 11/26/11)