

WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as part of the Obama Administration's unprecedented government-wide regulatory review, the White House announced five final rules that will save nearly $6 billion in the next five years by eliminating outdated requirements and unjustified costs. To ensure that the federal government continues this important work, the President also signed a new Executive Order today, making it a continuing obligation of our government to scrutinize rules on the books to see if they really make sense.

Today's announcements mark an important milestone in the ambitious regulatory "lookback" that President Obama ordered in 2011 to cut through unnecessary red tape while promoting economic growth and protecting public health, safety, welfare, and our environment.

The President's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) also issued a report today on the "lookback" progress to date, noting that agencies have identified over 500 reforms, just a small fraction of which will save more than $10 billion over the next five years.

"Smart rules can save lives and keep us safe, but there are some regulations that don't make sense and cost too much," said President Obama. "We will remain vigilant when it comes to eliminating regulations that are not necessary or that impose unnecessary burdens on America's families and businesses."

"By streamlining some rules and eliminating others," said Cass Sunstein, Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, "we can save billions of dollars in unnecessary costs while continuing to protect the health and safety of the American people."

Continuing the Administration's aggressive efforts to deliver a regulatory system that increases benefits to the American people while slashing costs, the new Executive Order signed by the President today directs agencies to promote priority-setting, by emphasizing reforms that produce significant quantifiable savings and by seeking comments from the American people on rules in need of review. To promote accountability, the Order requires agencies to provide the public with regular reports on their past efforts and their future plans -- with details and deadlines. These steps build on, and institutionalize, the President's Executive Order of January 18, 2011, which first called for the regulatory lookback. These historic reforms were also recommended by the President's Jobs Council.

Since that time, agencies have made significant progress, as detailed in the CEA report released today. Among the 500 areas identified for reform are five major regulatory reforms that were finalized by agencies today:






