"President Obama has spent the last four years trying to convince Iowans he will stop passing our financial burdens to the next generation. But his liberal policies of skyrocketing debt and deficits just haven't lived up to the promises he's made. As president, Mitt Romney will finally deliver the change Washington needs by reining in wasteful spending and getting our economy moving again." –Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "As President, I will go through the federal budget, line-by-line, ending programs that we don't need and making the ones we do need work better and cost less. But as I've said from the day we began this journey all those months ago, the change we need isn't just about new programs and policies." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Des Moines, IA, 10/31/08)
 OBAMA: "For decades, our deficits -- well, actually just a decade -- our deficits were unacceptably large year after year -- because 10 years ago, we actually had a surplus." (President Barack Obama, 
, Ottumwa, IA, 4/27/10)
 (Department Of The Treasury, 
, Accessed 5/13/12; Census Bureau, 
, Accessed 5/13/12)
 (Department Of The Treasury, 
, Accessed 5/13/12)
 (Department Of The Treasury, 
, Accessed 5/13/12)
 "CBO's high estimate is still short of the 3.5 million jobs that Obama had said would be created by the end of 2010, so it's accurate to say the stimulus has failed to live up to initial expectations. White House advisers wrongly estimated that the stimulus would bring the unemployment rate down to 7 percent — though they also thought the rate without the stimulus would be lower than it actually is, and they made clear that 'substantial uncertainty' surrounded those estimates." (Lori Robertson, "Dueling Economic Ads," 
, 6/30/11)
 "GSA Administrator Martha Johnson admitted in a letter of resignation that her agency had made a 'significant misstep' and that 'taxpayer dollars were squandered.' A GSA Inspector General's report on the 2010 GSA 'Western Regions' training conference in Las Vegas shows the government spent more than $822,000 for the 300 attendees..." (Lesa Jansen, "GSA Head Resigns Over 'Wasteful' Las Vegas Seminar," 
, 4/2/12)
 "Solar panel maker Solyndra received a $528 million Energy Department loan in 2009 – and went bankrupt last year. The government's risky investment strategy didn't stop there, as a CBS News investigation has uncovered a pattern of cases of the government pouring your tax dollars into clean energy." (Sharyl Attkisson, "Tax Dollars Backing Some "Risky" Energy Projects," 
, 1/13/12)
 (Editorial, "The Non-Green Jobs Boom," 
, 11/26/11)