"After three-and-a-half years of pushing liberal policies that have grown the size of government, President Obama has tried to rewrite history by claiming he has respect for America's free enterprise system. But no amount of campaign rhetoric and empty promises can hide the fact that President Obama's time in office hasn't lived up to the promises he's made over the last four years." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The pro-Obama super PAC Priorities USA Action is sharply ramping up the Democratic offensive against Mitt Romney's business record, launching a $4 million ad campaign today in a group of 2012 swing states, a strategist for the group tells POLITICO. ... The 30-second commercial is going up in Colorado, Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia, the strategist said, and also includes an online advertising component. It comes on the heels of the Obama campaign unveiling a 2-minute commercial – also focused on Bain shuttering a GST Steel factory – which is set to air in select swing-state markets Wednesday." (Alexander Burns, "Obama Super PAC Launches Bain Offensive," 
, 5/15/12)
 "Speaking at the Park Avenue penthouse of Blackstone Group COO Tony James, Obama stressed he's done his best to boost the economy and the financial sector. ... 'I believe the free market is the greatest wealth generator devised by man,' he said. 'Risk takers and innovators should be rewarded' because 'we all benefit from free-enterprise.'" (Jennifer Epstein, "Obama Defends Wall Street Record," 
, 5/14/12)
 
 (Editorial, "The Energy Department's Loan Guarantee Program Is The Real Solyndra Scandal," 
 11/17/11)
 "The Department of Energy's inspector general, Gregory Friedman, who was not a political appointee, chastised the alternative-energy loan and grant programs for their absence of 'sufficient transparency and accountability.' He has testified that contracts have been steered to 'friends and family.'" (Peter Schweizer, "Obama Campaign Backers And Bundlers Rewarded With Green Grants And Loans," 
, 11/12/11)
 (Carol D. Leonnig and Joe Stephens, "Venture Capitalists Play Key Role In Obama's Energy Department," 
, 2/14/12)
 "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy. The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers. Solyndra was the first company to win one of the guarantees, receiving $535 million in 2009 to build its second factory in Fremont less than a mile from the company's original plant." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," 
, 9/1/11)
 "The bonuses and bankruptcies come against a growing wave of trouble for companies financed with Energy Department dollars. Of the first 12 loan guarantees the department announced, for instance, two firms filed for bankruptcy, a third has faced layoffs and a fourth deal never closed." (Ronnie Greene and Matthew Mosk, "Green Firms Get Fed Cash, Give Execs Bonuses, Fail," 
, 3/6/12)