"For years, President Obama has tried to pass off his stale liberal policies as a remedy for the housing crisis that middle-class families continue to face. But after three-and-a-half years of wasteful spending and failed programs, President Obama has proven on housing – like all of his economic policies – he isn't up to the challenge of getting our economy moving again." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Barack Obama is turning his attention back to the economy after a day spent raising millions of dollars for his campaign and riding a media wave on his newly declared support for same-sex marriage. Obama was to promote housing policies to help homeowners avoid foreclosure in a quick visit Friday to struggling Nevada, which ranks second in the nation in foreclosed homes and has the highest unemployment in the country." ("Obama Heads To Struggling Nev. After Fundraising," 
, 5/11/12)
 OBAMA: "And we will pursue the housing plan I'm outlining today. And through this plan, we will help between 7 and 9 million families restructure or refinance their mortgages so they can afford—avoid foreclosure." (President Barack Obama, 
, Mesa, AZ, 2/18/09)
 "The Obama administration's initial foreclosure-prevention programs, launched in early 2009, were intended to help 7 million to 9 million people. So far, they've aided about 2 million, and not all of those are out of foreclosure danger." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs," 
, 12/12/11)
 "'Every program has fallen far short of goals. I can't think of one that's been largely successful,' says John Dodds, director of the Philadelphia Unemployment Project, a non-profit that's been involved in foreclosure prevention for decades." (Julie Schmit, "What Went Wrong With Foreclosure Aid Programs?," 
, 12/12/11)
 "One of the main problems with Obama's foreclosure prevention program was that the housing crisis had already spiraled beyond unaffordable mortgage rates. Homeowners were defaulting because they didn't have jobs -- and the administration's effort did little to help them. In response, Obama rolled out a multitude of initiatives designed to help the underwater and the unemployed. But few of them have had much impact." (Tami Luhby, "Has Obama's Housing Policy Failed," 
, 1/18/12)
 "Nevada's 62-month streak as the foreclosure capital of the nation has come to an end. ... One in every 301 housing units in Nevada had a foreclosure filing during the month of March. Arizona now claims the country's highest foreclosure rate, while California comes in third place." ("Nevada Foreclosure Rate Drops To No. 2 In Nation," 
, 4/12/12)
 "Nearly one in five children in Nevada is affected by foreclosure, the highest rate in the nation, according to a report released Wednesday by a national children's advocacy group. In all, 7 percent of the nation's children, or more than 8 million youths, are struggling with the housing crisis, according to the report by First Focus in Washington, D.C. Of those, 2.3 million have already lost their homes and 3 million children have been evicted or face eviction from rental properties in foreclosure." (Cristina Silva, "Report: Nevada 1st In Kids Affected By Foreclosure," 
, 4/19/12)
 "Other metro areas with foreclosure rates ranking among the top 20 were Phoenix at No. 6 (5.10 percent); Reno, Nev., at No. 8 (4.37 percent); Atlanta at No. 12 (3.69 percent); Prescott, Ariz., at No. 14 (3.50 percent); Cape Coral-Fort Myers, Fla., at No. 15 (3.29 percent); Greeley, Colo., at No. 17 (2.97 percent); Detroit at No. 18 (2.94 percent); Boise, Idaho, at No. 19 (2.85 percent); and Salt Lake City at No. 20 (2.81 percent)." (RealtyTrac, "2011 Year-End Foreclosure Market Report: Foreclosures On The Retreat," 
, 1/12/12)
 "In the fourth quarter of 2011, for example, an estimated 50,083 homes in Reno-Sparks, 53 percent of homes with an active mortgage, suffered from negative equity, according to data tracker CoreLogic." (Jason Hidalgo, "Region Enters Sellers' Market As Homes For Sale Are Dwindling," 
, 5/5/12)