"President Obama likes to say that 'we can't wait' to solve America's problems, but he has done nothing but wait when it comes to America's energy security. His opposition to developing domestic energy resources imperils our economic future and our national security. While President Obama is content with endless 'studying' and delay, Mitt Romney has a plan that will put Americans to back work, pump billions of dollars into the economy, and strengthen our energy security for decades to come." -Lanhee Chen, Romney for President Policy Director
 "The Interior Department announcement set in motion a five-year environmental and seismic study of offshore areas, including off the Virginia coast, but no actual lease sales and drilling. Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell notes that a planned lease sale, which the administration canceled last year, will now be put off until at least 2018. ... The Obama administration first delayed the Virginia lease sale until 2012 and then later announced that no areas off the Atlantic Coast would be available for energy development in the next five-year plan (2012-2017)." (Editorial, "Yes, Virginia, President Obama Is An Oil Hypocrite," 
, 4/2/12)
 
 "The administration seems to think that it can use environmental claptrap to convince the American public that it is behaving ethically and legally in denying the TransCanada permit, even after the company has spent $1.9 billion over 40 months carefully adhering to the federal regulatory process. And a lot of Americans will not have the time or inclination to get into the weeds on this issue."  (Mary Anastasia O'Grady, "Obama's Keystone Delay Flouts The Law," 
, 1/23/12)
"The Treasury Department's oversight role of a half-billion-dollar federal loan guarantee to Solyndra LLC was not sufficiently defined, the consultation that did occur was 'rushed' and no records were kept as to how Treasury's serious concerns with the loan were addressed, a report says. The department's Office of Inspector General, in a report this week, said inspectors who examined the $535 million Solyndra loan were given only one day to look at the company's books before a press release was issued announcing the loan." (Jerry Seper, "Treasury Oversight Of Solyndra Loan Was Cut Short," 
, 4/5/12)
 "You might have seen this week a stunning demonstration of political condescension on the health care front. In remarks at the 2010 Legislative Conference for the National Association of Counties, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said, 'But we have to pass the bill so that you can find out what is in it, away from the fog of controversy.'" ("Video Of The Week: 'We Have To Pass The Bill So You Can Find Out What Is In It,'" 
, 3/10/10) 
 "'It's a great moment. I'm proud to have been here,' said a teary-eyed Sen. Christopher J. Dodd (D-Conn.), who as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee led the effort in the Senate. 'No one will know until this is actually in place how it works. But we believe we've done something that has been needed for a long time.'" (David Cho et al, "Lawmakers Guide Dodd-Frank Bill For Wall Street Reform Into Homestretch," 
, 6/26/10)