"President Obama's liberal policies are growing the size and scope of the federal government – but they're not growing the economy. After three years of President Obama's wasteful spending and increased debt, struggling New York families need a president who can actually live up to the promises he makes to voters." –Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "President Obama is heading to Albany tomorrow for a much-anticipated visit highlighting jobs, at which he's now touring the NanoTech Complex, a center that gets heavy praise in the upstate New York area. It's a switch from where he was originally heading, GlobalFoundries, a computer chip plant that's been the subject of a number of profiles, and which employs about 1,300 people. But it's also a company that is owned by the Abu Dhabi government." (Maggie Haberman, "Obama's NY Visit Originally Included Firm With Abu Dhabi Government Ownership," 
, 5/7/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 5/7/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 5/7/12)
 "Delcath Systems Inc., which plans to employ about 30 people at a new manufacturing facility in Queensbury by the end of the year, could be one of the first victims. 'So, they're losing money, and it just didn't make sense to say, 'We're going to increase your losses by charging you a revenue tax while you're struggling to profitability,' [CEO Eamonn] Hobbs said. 'It's not going to be good for R-and-D; it's not going to be good for jobs, and it's very, very short-sighted.'" (Scott Donnelly, "Tax Looms For Medical Device Firms," 
, 4/16/10)
 "This new federal health reform bill that just went in, it could have a major impact on area medical device manufacturers. ... Officials say it will be especially tough on small employers and could have a significant impact on patient care and innovation. The national association says many of its members could be faced with layoffs, cuts to research-and-development, or a slowdown in new development. There are many small-device manufacturers here in western New York. They say it will be difficult to maintain those areas while dealing with increased taxes." (WKBW-BUF's "Good Morning Western New York," 4/6/10)
 (AAA Website, 
, Accessed 5/8/12)
 "It's enough to make your blood pressure skyrocket. New York regulators approved hikes averaging 8 percent in health insurance premiums for next year following requests by the companies." (Carl Campanile, "Health Plans Get 8% Hike," 
, 11/7/11)