"President Obama has broken countless promises during his time in office - but none more important than his promise to help create jobs and get our economy moving again. From green jobs that never materialized to an unemployment rate that has remained above 8% for thirty-nine straight months, President Obama's rhetoric simply doesn't match with his failed economic record." -Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "And I'll invest 150 billion dollars over the next decade in affordable, renewable sources of energy - wind power and solar power and the next generation of biofuels; an investment that will lead to new industries and five million new jobs that pay well and can't ever be outsourced." (Sen. Barack Obama, 
, Denver, CO, 8/28/08)
 "In a blow to the Obama administration's efforts to create green jobs, solar-cell maker Solyndra announced Wednesday that it will close its remaining Fremont factory, lay off its 1,100 employees and file for bankruptcy.  The news marked an abrupt end for a company once considered among the most innovative in a fast-changing industry. The bankruptcy also represents a high-profile failure for a federal stimulus program that gives loan guarantees to green-tech manufacturers. Solyndra was the first company to win one of the guarantees, receiving $535 million in 2009 to build its second factory in Fremont less than a mile from the company's original plant." (David R. Baker and Carolyn Said, "Solyndra Closes Fremont Plant - Stimulus Hopes Dim," 
, 9/1/11)
 "The bonuses and bankruptcies come against a growing wave of trouble for companies financed with Energy Department dollars. Of the first 12 loan guarantees the department announced, for instance, two firms filed for bankruptcy, a third has faced layoffs and a fourth deal never closed."  (Ronnie Greene and Matthew Mosk, "Green Firms Get Fed Cash, Give Execs Bonuses, Fail," 
, 3/6/12)
 "But the millions of 'green jobs' Obama promised have been slow to sprout, disappointing many who had hoped that the $90 billion earmarked for clean-energy efforts in the recession-fighting federal stimulus package would ease unemployment - still above 8 percent in March." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," 
, 4/13/12)
 "The wind industry, for example, has shed 10,000 jobs since 2009 even as the energy capacity of wind farms has nearly doubled, according to the American Wind Energy Association. Meanwhile, the oil and gas industry has added 75,000 jobs since Obama took office, according to Labor Department statistics." (Andy Sullivan, "Analysis: Obama's 'Green Jobs' Have Been Slow To Sprout," 
, 4/13/12)
 
 (Aaron Glantz, "Number Of Green Jobs Fails To Live Up To Promises," 
, 8/18/11)
 (Christina Romer and Jared Bernstein, "
," 1/9/09)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 5/4/12)
 (David Jackson, "CBO Projects 8%-Plus Unemployment Into 2014," 
, 2/16/12)
 OBAMA: "And that is why I hope to sign an American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan into law in the next few weeks. Most of the money we're investing as part of this plan will get out the door immediately and go directly to job-creation, generating or saving three to four million new jobs."  (President Barack Obama, 
, Washington, D.C., 1/28/09)
 "Remember 'shovel-ready projects.' Those were construction projects in the 2009 stimulus bill that were supposed to get moving right away ... 'Shovel-ready was not as shovel-ready as we expected,' Obama said." (David Jackson, "Obama Jokes About 'Shovel-Ready Projects'," 
, 6/13/11)
 "U.S. Vice President Joe Biden acknowledged on Tuesday that some waste is inevitable in the spending of a $787 billion economic stimulus package, in a characteristically blunt assessment. 'We know some of this money is going to be wasted,' Biden said during a roundtable discussion in New York with business leaders aimed at promoting the two-year stimulus plan." ("Biden Says Some Waste Inevitable Part Of Stimulus," 
, 6/3/09)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, Accessed 5/4/12)
 (Kendra Marr, "'Shovel Ready' Jobs Could Take Time," 
, 9/26/11)
 
 "A January 2010 Associated Press analysis of Recovery Act spending on roads and bridges 'had no effect on local unemployment and only barely helped the beleaguered construction industry,' regardless of how many dollars lawmakers threw at the various projects." (Devin Dwyer, "Shovel-Ready, Take II: Would Obama Infrastructure Plan Create Jobs Now," 
, 9/8/11)