"At a time when nearly 23 million Americans are struggling for work, President Obama has sacrificed thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in revenue by targeting Virginia's offshore drilling efforts. This is just the latest example of a president who is more interested in playing politics than creating jobs and getting the economy moving again." -Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The Interior Department has put the final touches on a five-year plan to expand oil and gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore from Alaska and Virginia. Interior officials said Friday the plan will include more environmental buffer zones around lease areas and make other minor changes to a previous draft. Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne is scheduled to announce the "major oil and gas development program" Monday, a department statement says. ... Interior's plan would, for the first time, allow drilling off Virginia's eastern shore, in a wedge-shaped area between the Maryland and North Carolina state lines stretching to a point about 200 miles east." ("Interior To Propose Expanding Offshore Drilling," 
, 4/27/07)
 "The pursuit of oil and natural gas off Virginia's coast, gaining momentum two months ago, came to an abrupt halt Thursday as President Barack Obama clamped down on the offshore drilling industry. Obama said he will cancel lease sales planned off Virginia and in the western Gulf of Mexico, continue a ban on new deepwater oil drilling permits for six months, and delay a lease sale off Alaska. ... Canceling the Virginia lease sale upends Gov. Bob McDonnell's effort to make Virginia the first Atlantic coast state to permit offshore drilling." (Cory Nealon, "Va. Drilling Plans Dealt New Setback," 
, 5/28/10)
 "The Obama administration's new five-year plan for offshore oil and gas drilling includes lease sales in federal waters in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coast of Alaska but will not offer leases for drilling off Virginia or other parts of the eastern United States. The Interior Department's proposed plan delineates where oil and gas companies can bid, from 2012 to 2017, to lease offshore areas they think hold the promise of new oil and gas reserves." (Steven Mufson, "Offshore Drilling Plan Excludes Virginia," 
, 11/8/11)
 "By going forward with offshore Atlantic oil and gas leasing and with Virginia participating in the development of offshore Atlantic resources, a recent report estimates that the state's activity could: Create approximately 1,900 new jobs in Virginia; Add $365 million annually to the Gross Domestic Product; and Generate almost $19.5 billion in government revenues at all levels of government (federal, state and local)." ("Potential Job Creation, Economic Benefits And Revenue Sharing From Oil And Natural Gas Production And Exploration In Virginia," 
, 10/14/10)
 (Bob McDonnell, Op-Ed, "Virginia Could Be An Energy Power—If Washington Would Let It," 
, 4/30/12)
 "'I believe that clean, renewable energy will power our future. In the meantime, responsible domestic production can help create jobs, generate revenue, improve national security, and address our energy needs while clean energy technology is developed,' Kaine wrote. 'I hope the Department of Interior and the Obama administration will recognize the bipartisan support for developing Virginia's offshore energy resources and add Virginia to the current lease sale.'" ("Virginia Left Out Of Offshore Drilling," 
, 11/8/11)
  "Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., also said he hopes there'll be a change of heart. 'This is disappointing, because the safe, responsible development of offshore energy resources has broad support from Virginians and among the bipartisan elected leadership of the state,' Warner wrote. 'I will be strongly urging the administration to take another look at including Virginia in its five-year plan.'" ("Virginia Left Out Of Offshore Drilling," 
, 11/8/11)
 "Sen. Jim Webb, D-Va., said he hopes the administration will reconsider. 'Oil and gas exploration within the Virginia Outer Continental Shelf-if coupled with an equitable formula for sharing revenues between the state and federal governments-would boost domestic energy production, while benefiting the Commonwealth's economy,' Webb said in a press release. 'As we work to address our energy future here in Congress, it is important to note the administration's existing authority to include Virginia in the current five-year lease plan, and I once again urge the president to exercise that authority.'" ("Virginia Left Out Of Offshore Drilling," 
, 11/8/11)
 (AAA Website, 
, Accessed 5/2/12)
 "More than 32 mostly coal-fired power plants in a dozen states will be forced to shut down and an additional 36 might have to close because of new federal air pollution regulations, according to an Associated Press survey. Together, those plants -- some of the oldest and dirtiest in the country -- produce enough electricity for more than 22 million households, the AP survey found. But their demise probably won't cause homes to go dark." (Dina Cappiello, "AP Impact: EPA Rules Threaten Older Power Plants," 
, 12/19/11)
 "About 500,000 tons of coal a year are burned at the Clinch River plant, an aging Appalachian Power Co. facility that has been producing electricity since Dwight Eisenhower occupied the White House. The fate of this 53-year-old power plant, and others like it across the country, could soon be determined by new regulations proposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ... American Electric Power Co., the parent company of Appalachian, says the rules would force it to shut one unit at the Clinch River plant and convert the remaining two to burn natural gas instead of coal. The second coal-burning facility that Appalachian runs in Southwest Virginia, the Glen Lyn plant in Giles County, would be shut down completely by 2014." (Laurence Hammack, "Power Or Poison? EPA Rules Could Limit Coal-Fueled Plants' Emissions," 
, 10/9/11)
 "Appalachian operates two coal-fired power plants in Virginia. Mallan said that the tailoring rule, as well as other proposed regulations, could negatively affect rates, permitting processes and company profits. He said some changes could potentially mean the shuttering of the plants in Giles and Washington counties and a sharp uptick in customers' bills."  (Annie Johnson, "Seeking Clarity On Pollution Rules," 
, 1/20/12)