 pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 as amended by section 31 of the act of August 24, 1935 (49 Stat. 750, 773), as amended by section 5 of the act of February 29, 1936 (49 Stat. 1148, 1152), as reenacted by section 1 of the act of June 3, 1937 (50 Stat. 246), and as further amended by the act of January 25, 1940 (54 Stat. 17), I issued a proclamation on May 28, 1941 (No. 2489), limiting the quantities of wheat and wheat flour which may be entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption; and
 the United States Tariff Commission has made a supplemental investigation pursuant to said section 22 with respect to certain wheat and wheat flour and has made findings with respect thereto; and
 the Tariff Commission has transmitted to me a report of such findings and its recommendations based thereon, and has also transmitted a copy of such report to the Secretary of Agriculture:
 President of the United States of America, do hereby find and declare, on the basis of such supplemental investigation and report, that circumstances requiring the provisions of my proclamation of May 28, 1941, with respect to the wheat and wheat flour hereinafter described do not exist. Accordingly, pursuant to the aforesaid section 22, I hereby proclaim that the provisions of my proclamation of May 28, 1941, are suspended, effective immediately, insofar as they apply to the following wheat and wheat flour:
(a) Samples of wheat or wheat flour in lots of 10 pounds or less, for use by research or scientific organizations or by milling or baking laboratories for testing, experimental, research, or other scientific purposes.
(b) Wheat or wheat flour in lots of more than 10 pounds, for use by research or scientific organizations or by milling or baking laboratories for testing, experimental, research, or other scientific purposes, whenever the written approval of the Secretary of Agriculture or his designated representative is presented at the time of entry, or whenever bond is furnished in a form prescribed by the Commissioner of Customs, in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise as set forth in the entry, plus the estimated duty as determined at the time of entry, conditioned upon the production of such written approval within six months from the date of entry.
(a) Certified or registered seed wheat for use for seeding and crop-improvement purposes, in bags tagged and sealed by an officially recognized seed-certifying agency of the country of production, in lots of 100 bushels or less.
(b) Certified or registered seed wheat for use for seeding and crop-improvement purposes, in bags tagged and sealed by an officially recognized seed-certifying agency of the country of production, in lots of more than 100 bushels, whenever the written approval of the Secretary of Agriculture or his designated representative is presented at the time of entry, or whenever bond is furnished in a form prescribed by the Commissioner of Customs, in an amount equal to the value of the merchandise as set forth in the entry, plus the estimated duty as determined at the time of entry, conditioned upon the production of such written approval within six months from the date of entry.
Any shipment of foreign wheat or wheat flour which, because of military, naval, or other emergency, act of God, or governmental act, has, in the course of its movement to a foreign country, been diverted to the United States or to any of its territories or possessions, whenever the Secretary of Agriculture or his designated representative advises the Commissioner of Customs that the shipment of such wheat or wheat flour to a foreign destination is not practicable.
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 13th day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-sixth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
SUMNER WELLES