"Americans have a clear choice this November to address our nation's ongoing energy crisis. Four years of President Obama's failed energy policies have produced fewer jobs and higher prices at the pump. And Americans can't afford four more years that will make energy prices 'skyrocket.' As president, Mitt Romney will provide relief to struggling families by putting America on a course to energy independence, lowering prices at the pump, and creating millions of jobs for American workers." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (
, Accessed 10/9/12)
 "Retail gasoline prices, already at the highest levels on average since July 2008, are likely to continue to climb this month as refinery and pipeline problems overshadow weakness in U.S. consumer demand." (Sharon Epperson, "Gasoline Prices Set To Rise Through Election Day," 
, 10/5/12)
 "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," 
, 4/20/12)
 "TransCanada filed an application to build the 1,661-mile underground pipeline in September 2008 and passed two lengthy State Department reviews. But the White House bowed to the green lobby and the Environmental Protection Agency and sent the parties back to the drawing board in January." (Editorial, "The Keystone Democrats," 
, 3/10/12)
 "In 2010, most if not all of the production increase recorded is likely due to action that predates Obama, since Obama didn't take any major action expanding offshore drilling his first year in office." (Amy Harder, "Obama's Fuzzy Oil Production Math," 
, 3/17/11)
 (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," 
, 2/27/12)
 "We pointed this out in an examination of the president's State of the Union address, citing an Energy Information Administration graphic that shows production levels well below the rates from 1951 through 2002." (Josh Hicks, "Oil War: The Ad Battle Between 'Big Oil' And DNC, Part 2," 
, 3/30/12)
 (Editorial, "'Stupid' And Oil Prices," 
, 2/27/12)
 "Obama has an ambitious second-term agenda, which, at least in broad ways, his campaign is beginning to highlight. The President has said that the most important policy he could address in his second term is climate change, one of the few issues that he thinks could fundamentally improve the world decades from now." (Ryan Lizza, "The Second Term," 
, 6/18/12)
 "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," 
, 7/7/11)