 the United States is now at war, and the establishment of the maritime control area hereinafter described is necessary in the interests of national defense:
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States, and as Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and in accordance with the principle of self-defense of the Law of Nations, do hereby proclaim and establish the following-described area as the Hawaiian Maritime Control Area, and prescribe the following regulations for the control thereof:
HAWAIIAN MARITIME CONTROL AREA
All waters contained within the area delimited by lines connecting successively the following points:
 
REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF HAWAIIAN MARITIME CONTROL AREA
1. A vessel not proceeding under United States naval or other United States authorized supervision shall not enter or navigate the waters of the Hawaiian Maritime Control Area except during daylight, when good visibility conditions prevail, and then only after specific permission has been obtained. Advance arrangements for entry into or navigation through or within the said Area must be made, preferably by application at a United States Naval District Headquarters in advance of sailing, or by radio or visual communication on approaching the seaward limits of the area. If radio telegraphy is used, the call "NQO" shall be made on a frequency of 500 kcs, and permission to enter the port requested. The name of the vessel, purpose of entry, and name of master must be given in the request. If visual communications are used, the procedure shall be essentially the same.
2. Even though permission has been obtained, it is incumbent upon a vessel entering the said Area to obey any further instructions received from the United States Navy, or other United States authority.
3. A vessel may expect supervision of its movements within the said Area, either through surface craft or aircraft. Such controlling surface craft and aircraft shall be identified by a prominent display of the Union Jack.
4. These regulations may be supplemented by regulations of the local United States naval authority as necessary to meet local circumstances and conditions.
5. Should any vessel or person within the said Area disregard these regulations, or regulations issued pursuant hereto, or fail to obey an order of the United States naval authority, or perform any act threatening the efficiency of mine or other defenses, or take any action therein inimical to the defense of the United States, such vessel or person may be subjected to the force necessary to require compliance, and may be liable to detention or arrest, or penalties or forfeiture, in accordance with law, the law applicable to violations committed on the high seas being international law.
The Secretary of the Navy is charged with the enforcement of these regulations.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 27th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-sixth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL