 
 "At the Tuesday-morning meeting with committee staffers, Biden launches into a stream-of-consciousness monologue about what his committee should be doing, before he finally admits the obvious: 'I'm groping here.' Then he hits on an idea: America needs to show the Arab world that we're not bent on its destruction. 'Seems to me this would be a good time to send, no strings attached, a check for $200 million to Iran' Biden declares. He surveys the table with raised eyebrows, a How do ya like that? look on his face." (Michael Crowley, "Rhetorical Question," 
, 10/22/01)
 "The staffers sit in silence. Finally somebody ventures a response: 'I think they'd send it back.' Then another aide speaks up delicately: 'The thing I would worry about is that it would almost look like a publicity stunt.' Still another reminds Biden that an Iranian delegation is in Moscow that very day to discuss a $300 million arms deal with Vladimir Putin that the United States has strongly condemned." (Michael Crowley, "Rhetorical Question," 
, 10/22/01)
 "President Barack Obama reached out to Iran on Friday -- the start of the Iranian New Year -- in a video message offering 'the promise of a new beginning' that is 'grounded in mutual respect.' The message is a dramatic shift in tone from that of the Bush administration, which included Iran, along with North Korea and Iraq, in an 'axis of evil.'" ("Obama Offers Iran 'The Promise Of A New Beginning'," 
, 3/20/09)
 ("Obama Interview: The Transcript," 
, 6/2/09)
 "Obama's early overtures to Iran were rejected, and the expansion of Tehran's nuclear program, which it says is purely peaceful, has created tension between Washington and Israel, which sees a nuclear-armed Iran as a threat to its existence." (Matt Spetalnick and Mark Felsenthal, "Obama Warns Iran On Nuclear Bid, Containment 'No Option'," 
, 9/25/12)
 "No firm dates for new negotiations have been set, and Middle East analysts say no breakthrough is likely until after the November election. Meanwhile, Iran's success in adding thousands of centrifuge machines to its underground facility — and the inexorable growth of its uranium stockpile — continues to stoke fears of an Israeli airstrike. It has also left the White House vulnerable to Republican charges that administration policies, while well-intentioned, have ultimately been fruitless." (Joby Warrick, "Obama's Policy On Iran Bears Some Fruit, But Nuclear Program Still Advances," 
, 9/24/12)
 "The result is that President Obama is not even leading from behind on Iran; he is simply behind. At the forefront of the Western effort to pressure Tehran is French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who issued a statement Monday calling on the European Union, the United States, Japan, Canada and 'other willing countries' to 'immediately freeze the assets of Iran's central bank' and suspend purchases of Iranian oil." (Editorial, "More Half-Measures From Obama Administration On Iran," 
, 11/22/11)