 
 "Romney has laid out a consistent theme focused on encouraging business innovation and growth, reducing government spending and its economic footprint and educating and retraining people to take new jobs. That theme is a winner, and Congress will be receptive when Romney brings it."(Editorial, "Mitt Romney: New Leadership For More Economic Growth," 
, 10/21/12)
 "Based on our current fiscal condition, a still-weak economy and a Congress deeply divided along party lines, our next president will continue to face a daunting challenge, one that must be met for the good of the country. Four years later, we find ourselves in need of change yet again. Romney must be the leader to get things moving." (Editorial, "Nevada Needs A Change Now; Elect Mitt Romney President," 
, 10/20/12)
 "[T]he core of Romney's campaign platform, his five-point plan, at least shows he understands that reviving the economy and repairing the government's balance sheet are imperative — now, not four years in the future. ... We endorse Mitt Romney for president. (Editorial, "Our Pick For President: Romney," 
, 10/19/12)
 "Mitt Romney stands out because—unlike so many candidates in the past—he understands how to build businesses, create efficiencies, make tough deals and carefully consider divergent viewpoints. America needs a strong leader, a practical leader. ... [He] promises to bring a new and refreshing attitude to Washington, one that speaks to his experience as both a successful business leader and the governor of a state not known for its affection for Republicans." (Editorial, "Romney For President," 
, 10/16/12)
 "Four years ago, as America faced serious trouble at home and abroad, this news organization embraced the need for bold change to a different brand of leadership and endorsed Barack Obama for president. That assessment of the depth of the nation's problems and the most promising solution was correct in 2008. Regrettably, it applies no less in 2012, after nearly a full term of Obama's administration. This is why the editorial board urges voters to choose Mitt Romney for president in the Nov. 6 election. He is the leader this country needs for the future."(Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," 
, 10/26/12)
 "In these uncertain times, we need a leader who will chart a clear course, sweat the details and get the job done right. We believe Romney's past performance is a predictor of his future behavior. He's proven himself to be a successful businessman. He rescued the 2002 Winter Olympics from scandal and mismanagement. He worked with a Democrat-dominated legislature as governor of Massachusetts to close a $3 billion budget deficit — without borrowing and raising taxes." (Editorial, "Sun Sentinel Endorses Mitt Romney For President," 
, 10/26/12)