"In 2008, Barack Obama promised the nation he would engage in 'a real debate about how to fix our economy.' Four years later, President Obama has opted instead for a 20-page brochure and recycled policy proposals. It's clear the President knows he can't talk about his plans for four more years like the last four years, with a $20 trillion debt, fewer jobs, and devastating Medicare cuts. As president, Mitt Romney will put our nation on a new course by cutting taxes for the middle class and delivering 12 million new jobs for American workers." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson 
OBAMA: "So what we need right now is a real debate about how to fix our economy and help middle class families. But that's not what we're getting from the other side." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks, Reno, NV, 10/25/12)
"Mr. Obama tried to address what polling has shown is a consistent question among voters: What kind of agenda does he have for a second term? He released a 20-page booklet encapsulating previously announced policies and contrasting his positions to those of Mr. Romney. The document contains no new proposals, and was derided by a spokesman for Mr. Romney as a 'glossy panic button.'" (Michael D. Shear and Helene Cooper, "With Debates Over, Candidates Race To Clinch Vital States," 
, 10/23/12)
RUSSERT: "Now mayor, looking through this pamphlet, there is not a lot of new ideas here. I cover Capitol Hill. A lot of these ideas went to die on Capitol Hill. Why is President Obama putting out this type of literature 13 days before the end of the campaign? Shouldn't it have been earlier if this really was his big idea?" (MSNBC's "Daily Rundown," 10/24/12)
YELLIN: "He has put this out before. He's just never put it out in a booklet like this. ... My point is, there's not anything significantly new in here. It's just all compiled in a nice booklet now." (
, 10/23/12)
GEIST: "I'll just read one line from The New York Times write-up, 'the document contains no new proposals.' Not a new word in it." (MSNBC's "
," 10/24/12)
(
, 7/27/12)
"Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," 
, 7/17/12)
 (Congressional Budget Office,
, 7/24/12)