As a Michigan native and the son of a car guy, Mitt Romney has always believed that a strong auto industry is an essential component of the nation's economy. He has a plan that will help the auto industry move forward into a new era of innovation and dominance.
 "The Obama's administration's leading plan to fix General Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC would use bankruptcy filings to purge the ailing companies of their biggest problems, including bondholder debt and retiree health-care costs, according to people familiar with the matter. ... President Barack Obama's task force has told both companies that the administration prefers this route ... rather than the prolonged out-of-court process that has thus far frustrated administration officials." (
, 3/30/09)
 "The administration says a 'surgical' structured bankruptcy may be the only way forward for GM and Chrysler, and President Obama held out that prospect Monday. 'I know that when people even hear the word 'bankruptcy,' it can be a bit unsettling, so let me explain what I mean,' he said." (
, 3/30/09)
 MITT ROMNEY: "The American auto industry is vital to our national interest as an employer and as a hub for manufacturing. A managed bankruptcy may be the only path to the fundamental restructuring the industry needs. It would permit the companies to shed excess labor, pension and real estate costs."  (Mitt Romney, "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt," Op-Ed, 
, 11/19/08)
 "The federal government should provide guarantees for post-bankruptcy financing and assure car buyers that their warranties are not at risk. In a managed bankruptcy, the federal government would propel newly competitive and viable automakers, rather than seal their fate with a bailout check." (Mitt Romney, "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt," Op-Ed, 
, 11/19/08)
 "The Obama administration's decision to bail out Chrysler gave the union trust what was initially a majority ownership position of 55 percent of its shares." (
, 6/3/11)
 "Chrysler LLC, for years America's third-biggest automaker, survived perhaps the most dire of its periodic near-death experiences in 2008 and 2009, when the federal government forced it into bankruptcy, pumped in $10 billion in taxpayer funds and put it under the control of the Italian automaker Fiat, with the auto workers union as the company's biggest shareholder." (
, 7/30/12)
 "President Obama's auto task force pressed General Motors and Chrysler to close scores of dealerships without adequately considering the jobs that would be lost or having a firm idea of the cost savings that would be achieved, an audit of the process has concluded." (
, 7/18/10)
 "The Treasury Department is resisting a push by General Motors Co. to sell the government's entire stake in the auto maker — the latest source of tension between two unlikely partners thrust together at the depths of the financial crisis. U.S. taxpayers kept the nation's largest auto maker by sales afloat with a $50 billion bailout in 2009 and now own 26.5% of the Detroit company. But GM executives have grown increasingly frustrated with that ownership and the stigma of being known as 'Government Motors.'" (
, 9/17/12)
 (
, 8/12)