"Women have a clear choice in November after four years that have delivered little progress for millions of struggling Americans. President Obama's failed economic policies have left women with fewer jobs, higher poverty, and diminishing opportunities for the next generation. And even inside the Obama White House, women have been left behind. Mitt Romney has a clear record of empowering women — and, as president, will work to build a stronger economy with millions of new jobs to help deliver a real recovery for all Americans." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (
, 10/10/12)
 (
, 10/10/12)
 (
, 9/12/12)
 "More adult children moved in with their parents amid the recent tough economic times in the United States, according to a U.S. Census Bureau report released on Wednesday. The number of adult children living with parents increased 1.2 million to 15.8 million between 2007 and 2010, the Census Bureau said. Those ages 25 to 34 accounted for two thirds of the 823,000 increase in adult children living with parents during that period, according to the report." ("Adult Children Move Back Home In Tough Economy," 
 6/20/12)
 "About 1.5 million, or 53.6 percent, of bachelor's degree-holders under the age of 25 last year were jobless or underemployed, the highest share in at least 11 years. In 2000, the share was at a low of 41 percent, before the dot-com bust erased job gains for college graduates in the telecommunications and IT fields." (Hope Yen, "1 In 2 New Graduates Are Jobless Or Underemployed," 
, 4/22/12)
 "More jobless Americans are finding work these days, but they are mainly lucky fellas. The 'mancession' has morphed into the 'hecovery,' leaving women workers largely in the dust. The share of adult women who are employed is lower than it was two years ago, while men have seen an upturn." (Tami Luhby, "Where Have All The Women's Jobs Gone?" 
, 4/20/12)
 "In this rough-and-tumble environment, the book reports, female staff members often felt bruised. At a dinner with Mr. Obama in November 2009, several top female aides — including Anita Dunn, who was the communications director, and Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers — told the president about being talked over in meetings by male colleagues or cut out altogether." (Mark Landler, "Book Details Dissension In Obama Economic Team," 
, 9/15/11)
 "Even when women are in the room with Obama, they are sometimes seen but not heard. At a 2010 symposium on women in finance, Christina Romer, then the chair of Obama's Council of Economic Advisors, talked about the difficulty she had getting the floor in policy discussions." (Amy Sullivan, "The White House Boys' Club: President Obama Has A Woman Problem," 
, 9/21/11)  
 "Coverage in the Washington Post and a new book by Ron Suskind has focused attention on the frustration of Obama's female advisers. But the problem has been obvious almost since Obama took office. And while the explanations so far have blamed members of the mostly-departed boys club—Robert Gibbs, Rahm Emanuel—Obama himself is responsible for a work atmosphere that marginalizes and ignores women." (Amy Sullivan, "The White House Boys' Club: President Obama Has A Woman Problem," 
, 9/21/11)
 "'The president has a real woman problem,' an unnamed high-ranking female official told Suskind. 'The idea of the boys' club being just Larry and Rahm isn't really fair. He [Obama] was just as responsible himself.'" (Nia-Malika Henderson and Peter Wallsten, "Book: Women In Obama White House Felt Excluded And Ignored," 
, 9/16/11)
 (Nia-Malika Henderson, "Book: Women In Obama White House Felt Excluded And Ignored," 
 9/16/11)
 "'I felt like a piece of meat,' Christina Romer, former head of the Council of Economic Advisers, said of one meeting in which Suskind writes she was 'boxed out' by Summers." (Nia-Malika Henderson, "Book: Women In Obama White House Felt Excluded And Ignored," 
 9/16/11)
Some early efforts to elevate women foundered. The first White House communications director, Ellen Moran, departed quickly, after a rocky tenure. Others never quite fit in, or failed to be 'in the jet stream' of the most important events of the day, one official said. According to another official, the president initially discounted the complaints he heard that women, particularly on his economic team, were making." (Peter Wallsten and Anne E. Kornblut, "In Early Obama White House, Female Staffers Felt Frozen Out," 
 9/20/11)
 "[Massachusetts] also ranks first among the 50 states in the percentage of women appointed by the governor to policy-making positions, according to a new study from the Center for Women in Government and Civil Society at the University at Albany, State University of New York." (Elaine McArdle, "Calling The Shots," 
 
, 10/31/04)
 "Between 1998 and 2004, women's participation as top policy leaders in the executive, legislative and judicial branches of Massachusetts state government rose by 4.4 percentage points to 28.0%. Women now hold 54.5% of top advisor jobs and 50% of department head positions, both figures well above national and New England regional averages." ("Women's Leadership Profile 2004," Center For Women In Government & Civil Society, 
, Fall 2004)