 (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
 "What did Obama say in the Rose Garden a day after the attack in Libya? 'No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this nation,' he said. But he did not say 'terrorism'—and it took the administration days to concede that that it an 'act of terrorism' that appears unrelated to initial reports of anger at a video that defamed the prophet Muhammad." (Glenn Kessler, "Fact Check: Libya Attack," 
, 10/16/12)
 ALLEN: "There's going to be a bunch of fact checks, but just to do a fact check here. ... And I'm looking at the transcript of that White House event the day after and he started by referring to them as selfless acts, which is casted very differently than the sort of very planned action that we now have. Later toward the end, he makes a reference to 9/11 and he says, very generally, we will not let acts of terror go unpunished. So that's going to be an arguable point." (Presidential Debate Wrap-Up, 
, 10/16/12)
 CROWLEY: "And I think actually, because right after that, I did turn around and say but you are totally correct that they spent two weeks telling us that this was about a tape and that there was this riot outside the Benghazi consulate, which there wasn't. So he was right in the main, I just think he picked the wrong word. They're going to parse and we all know what the definition of 'is' is, but, you know, in the end, I think John's probably right." (CNN's 
 10/16/12)
 OBAMA: "Look, the cost of lowering rates for everybody across the board 20 percent, along with what he also wants to do in terms of eliminating the estate tax, along what he wants to do in terms of corporates changes in the tax code -- it costs about $5 trillion." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
 BURNETT: "Right. So you're saying if you lower them by 20% you get a $5 trillion tab, right?" CUTTER: "It's a $5 trillion tab."  BURNETT: "But then when you close deductions it's not going to be anywhere near $5 trillion. That's our analysis." CUTTER: "Well, okay, stipulated, it won't be near $5 trillion, but it's also not going to be the sum of $5 trillion in the loopholes that he's going to close." (
, 10/4/12)
 "Obama accused Romney of proposing a $5 trillion tax cut. Not true. Romney proposes to offset his rate cuts and promises he won't add to the deficit." (Brooks Jackson, "Dubious Denver Debate Declarations." 
, 10/4/12)
 KARL: "Okay, so, the big thing there, and he came back to it several times, is Governor Romney has a $5 trillion tax cut plan. I rate that mostly fiction." (ABC's "Your Voice: 2012Presidential Debates," 10/3/12)
 "Obama's claim that Romney wants to cut taxes by $5 trillion doesn't add up. Presumably, Obama was talking about the effect of Romney's tax plan over 10 years, which is common in Washington. But Obama's math doesn't take into account Romney's entire plan." (Calvin Woodward, "FACT CHECK: Presidential Debate Missteps," 
, 10/3/12)
 (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
"But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
"The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing.  Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," 
, 6/21/12)
 (Glenn Kessler, "Fact Check: Pioneers Of Outsourcing," 
, 10/16/12)
 OBAMA: "My philosophy on taxes has been simple, and that is, I want to give middle-class families, and folks who are striving to get in the middle class, some relief, because they have been hit hard over the last decade, over the last 15, over the last 20 years." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
 ("Payments Of Penalties For Being Uninsured Under The Affordable Care Act," 
, 9/12)
 "In a new paper, AEI's Matt Jensen looks at the real annual cost of servicing the debt for households at various levels of income — including a potentially higher tax burden. As the table below illustrates, a household making between $100,000 and $200,000 a year could find its tax liability higher by roughly $2,400 every year. Over ten years, that works out to $24,000. And when you add in the debt already accrued the past four years under President Obama (the second table), that's another $1,600 a year. So now we are now talking about $4,000 a year, $40,000 over ten years." (James Pethokoukis, "Study: Obama's Big Budget Deficits Could Mean A $4,000 A Year Middle-Class Tax Hike," 
, 10/2/12)
 OBAMA: "The most important thing we can do is to make sure we control our own energy. Here is what I have done since I was president, we have increased oil production to the highest levels in 16 years. Natural gas production is the highest it has been in decades." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
 "Is Gov. Mitt Romney telling the truth when he says oil and gas production is down on public land? Contrary to President Obama's assertions, Romney's telling the truth when he says, 'Production of oil on public land is down 14 percent and production of gas on public land is down 9 percent.' That's because energy production on federal lands is down compared to 2010, according to the Energy Information Administration." (Juliet Eilperin, "The Truth About Oil And Gas Production On Public Land," 
, 10/16/12)
 KARL: "But on this issue of oil and gas drilling, Governor Romney said that oil and gas drilling is down by 50% on public lands. That is not exactly true but it's not far off. In fact, we looked at the numbers and oil drilling permits on public land dropped by 37% in the first two years of the Obama administration, 42% in terms of leases for natural gas. So the numbers weren't exactly right, but it is true that those drilling leases and permits are down under President Obama." (ABC's Presidential Debate Coverage, 10/16/12)