"Four years after promising to take China 'to the mat' for its manipulative currency practices, President Obama has once again failed to live up to his word. While American workers and businesses suffer and China continues to cheat without consequence, there is no leadership to be found in the White House. We can't afford another four years of President Obama's failure to stand up to China. Mitt Romney will do it on day one of his presidency." —Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "The Obama administration is delaying a decision that had been due Monday on whether China is manipulating its currency to gain trade advantages. The Treasury Department says the decision will now come after global finance officials meet in early November." ("Administration Delays China Currency Report," 
, 10/12/12)
 ("Administration Delays China Currency Report," 
, 10/12/12)
 (
, 5/25/12; 
, 12/28/11; 
, 5/27/11; 
, 2/04/11; 
, 7/8/10; 
, 10/15/09; 
, 4/15/09)
 "'Once again, the U.S. Treasury Department has given China a free pass when it comes to its currency manipulation,' Brown said. 'While we're seeing American manufacturing rebound, China is stepping up its efforts in a number of critical sectors, including clean and solar energy, advanced manufacturing, and auto parts.'" (Sen. Sherrod Brown, 
, 5/25/12)
 "China's undervalued renminbi is a long-standing, bipartisan concern, and it is not a phony one: In pursuit of growth led by exports, China has held the renminbi down in relation to the dollar, rendering its goods artificially cheap in the U.S. market. The renminbi would gain about 20 percent against the dollar if it were allowed to float freely like other currencies, according to the Peterson Institute for International Economics. China's policy has probably cost Americans hundreds of thousands of jobs and contributed to China's destabilizing pile of trillions of dollars in reserves." (Editorial, "Breaking China?" 
, 8/31/11)
 "China has become the world's top manufacturing country by output, returning the country to the position it occupied in the early 19th century and ending the US's 110-year run as the largest goods producer." (Peter Marsh, "China Noses Ahead As Top Goods Producer," 
, 3/13/11)
 "President Barack Obama, addressing questions Wednesday about China's alleged trade abuses and currency manipulation, said the United States must push back against unfair practices but not 'go out of our way to embarrass' the country." (Henry J. Gomez, "President Barack Obama Warns Against Embarrassing China On Trade Complaints," 
, 9/27/12)
OBAMA: "China is a competitor, but they don't have an enemy, as long as we understand that they are going to be negotiating aggressively for their advantage, and we've got to have a president in the White House who's negotiating to make sure that we're looking after American workers. That means enforcing our trade agreements; it means that if they're manipulating their currency, that we take them to the mat on the that issue..." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)