 BIDEN: "There's a lot of people in Florida that have good reason to be upset because they've lost a job. Even though 50 some percent of the American people think the economy tanked because of the last administration, that's not relevant. What's relevant is we're in charge. And right now we are the one's in charge and it's gotten better but it hasn't gotten good enough. And in states like Florida it's even been more stagnant because of the real estate market. And so I don't blame them for being mad. We're in charge. So they're angry." (
, 9/28/11)
 (Vice President Biden
 
 
 Dubuque, IA, 6/27/12)
 BIDEN: "All kidding aside, all the boos, stop all the malarkey. Look guys, this is deadly earnest man. This is deadly earnest. How they can justify — how they can justify raising taxes on a middle class that has been buried the last four years? How in Lord's name can they justify raising their taxes with these tax cuts?" (Vice President Biden, 
, Charlotte, NC, 10/2/12)
 BIDEN: "We're going to go bankrupt as a nation. People, when I say that, look at me and say, 'What are you talking about, Joe? You're telling me we have to go spend money to keep from going bankrupt?' The answer is yes." (James Taranto, "Ethnic Etiquette," 
, 7/17/09)
 BIDEN: "I literally get to be the last guy in the room with the President. That's our arrangement. I can give him all the advice that I have and make my case, but I walk out of the room." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, 4/26/12)
 QUESTION: "Wind and solar are flourishing here in Ohio, so why are you supporting clean coal?" BIDEN: "We're not supporting clean coal. Guess what, China is building two every week. Two dirty coal plants. And it's polluting the United States, it's causing people to die. ... No coal plants here in America. Build them, if they are going to build them over there, make them clean, because they're killing you." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, Maumee, OH, 9/17/08)
 "With the economy floundering, Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., told Ohio voters today that he and Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., would focus on one specific issue that Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., has neglected. ‘Look, John's last-minute economic plan does nothing to tackle the number one job facing the middle class, and it happens to be, as Barack says, a three-letter word: jobs. J-O-B-S,' the Democratic veep nominee said at a morning rally in Athens." (Nate Gewargis, "Oh, That Joe! (No. 29 In A Series) — Obama & Biden's Three-Letter Word: J-O-B-S," 
, 10/15/08)
 "‘Wealthy people are just as patriotic as middle-class people, as poor people, and they know they should be doing more,' Mr. Biden said. ‘We're not supposed to have a system with one set of rules for the wealthy and one set of rules for everyone else.'" (Michael D. Shear, "Biden Says Republicans Want A ‘Romney Rule'," 
, 4/12/12)
 BIDEN: "This is a monumental project, but I think it's doable. But I just think we got to stay on top of it and we got to stay on top of it on a weekly basis. Because this is about getting this out and spent in 18 months to create 3.5 million jobs and do -- to set -- tee this up so the rest of the good work that's being done here literally drop-kicks us out of this recession and we begin to grow again and begin to grow again." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Washington D.C., 2/25/09)
 "After chatting about the health insurance law, Biden concluded, ‘Well look, I'm not trying to talk you into voting for me, I just wanted to say hi to you, okay? And after it's all over when your insurance rates go down then you'll vote for me in 2016. I'll talk to you later.'" (Arlette Saenz, "Joe Biden Jokes About 2016 Run For President," 
, 10/31/12)