A Debate Viewing Guide To President Obama's Favorite Lies And Exaggerations That Routinely Go "Overboard"
 OBAMA: "This analysis also found that if Governor Romney wants to keep his word and pay for his plan so that he does not increase the deficit even more, the average middle-class family with children would be stuck with a tax increase of more than $2,000." (President Barack Obama, 
, Winter Park, FL, 8/2/12)
(Alex Brill, "The Romney Tax Plan: Not A Tax Hike On The Middle Class," 
, 10/2/12)
 "The Tax Policy Center's latest research report went viral last week, drawing attention in the presidential campaign and sparking a constructive discussion of the practical challenges of tax reform. ... What should we infer from this result? Like Howard Gleckman, I don't interpret this as evidence that Governor Romney wants to increase taxes on the middle class in order to cut taxes for the rich, as an Obama campaign ad claimed." (Donald Marron, "Understanding TPC's Analysis Of Governor Romney's Tax Plan," 
, 8/8/12)
 (Michael Cooper, Scott Shane, and Annie Lowry, "A Startling Truth Amid The Hyperbole,"
, 9/5/12)
 ROMNEY: "I'm looking to bring tax rates down for everyone, and, also, to make sure that we stimulate growth by doing so and jobs. For me, this is all about creating good jobs." (CBS News' "Face The Nation," 6/17/12)
 VOICE OVER: "When Mitt Romney left Bain, hundreds of plants, factories, and stores were shuttered. Workers saw their wages slashed, their jobs sent overseas. Romney made a fortune, now he wants to bring that business experience to us. He'd keep tax breaks for outsourcing and hand new tax cuts to millionaires all while raising taxes on the middle class. Romney's not the solution. He's the problem.'" (Obama For America 
, 9/26/12)
"But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," 
, 6/29/12)
 
 "We've gone over this problem with the Obama campaign before, awarding three Pinocchios to a January memo the team released blaming Romney for job losses and bad deals that took place after the former executive had stopped working for Bain....These facts essentially exonerate Romney from allegations that he was responsible for any outsourcing, bad deals and layoffs that occurred with Bain's companies in the early 2000s." (Josh Hicks, "Does Mitt Romney Love Outsourcing?" 
, 5/4/12)
"The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing.  Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," 
, 6/21/12)
 OBAMA: "Now, independent analysis says that my plan for reducing our deficits would lower them by $4 trillion. That's with a 'T' -- $4 trillion. And I've worked with Republicans in Congress already to cut a trillion dollars in spending, and I'm willing to do more." (President Barack Obama, Remarks By The President At A Campaign Event, Melbourne, FL, 9/9/12)
(Glenn Kessler, "Fact Checking Bill Clinton's Speech And Other Democrats At The Convention In Charlotte," 
s "
," 9/6/12)
 "We are encouraged that President Obama has embraced the goal of stabilizing the debt and the target of achieving at least $4 trillion in deficit reduction. Unfortunately, his proposal falls short of this goal by counting war savings that were already planned; and while it does (barely) stabilize the debt, it does so at a dangerously high level and with no margin for error. We are disappointed, too, that the president did not address the long-term solvency of Social Security."(Alan Simpson And Erskine Bowles, Op-Ed, "Go Big, Be Bold, Be Smart," 
, 10/2/11)
 OBAMA: "And Governor Romney and his running mate have a different plan. They want to turn Medicare into a voucher system. That means seniors would no longer have the guarantee of Medicare; they'd get a voucher to buy private insurance. And if it doesn't keep up with costs, well, that's the seniors' problem. ... It was estimated that Governor Romney's running mate, his original plan would force seniors to pay an extra $6,400 a year." (President Barack Obama, 
, Davenport, IA, 8/15/12)
"But there are some problems with that figure. First of all, it's only an estimate. Second of all, it's for the year 2022. But a bigger problem is that this dollar figure is an estimate for an earlier version of Ryan's plan. He's since changed it significantly to address some of the loudest complaints." (Glenn Kessler, "Factcheck: Sebelius' $6,400 Number Has Issues," 
, 9/4/12)
(Lori Robertson, "A Campaign Full Of Mediscare," 
, 8/22/12)
 (Sarah Kliff, "No, Romney-Ryan Wouldn't Increase Medicare Costs By $6,400," 
 "
," 9/4/12)
 "[President Obama] certainly could argue that these were necessary and important steps to take, but he can't blithely suggest that 90 percent of the current deficit "is as a consequence" of his predecessor's policies — and not his own." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's Claim That '90 Percent' Of The Current Deficit Is Due To Bush Policies," 
, 9/26/12)
 "But Obama pushed for spending increases and tax cuts that also have contributed in important ways to the nation's fiscal deterioration." (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's Claim That '90 Percent' Of The Current Deficit Is Due To Bush Policies," 
, 9/26/12)
 (Glenn Kessler, "Obama's Claim That '90 Percent' Of The Current Deficit Is Due To Bush Policies," 
, 9/26/12)