"The choice facing seniors couldn't be more clear when it comes to preserving Medicare. If he's re-elected, President Obama's $716 billion in Medicare cuts ensures today's seniors will be hit with higher costs, fewer benefits, and reduced access to care. Mitt Romney will reverse the President's disastrous Medicare cuts and preserve and strengthen the program for future retirees." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (Congressional Budget Office, 
, 7/24/12)
 "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs." (Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," 
, 4/23/10)
 (Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)
 "In the Office of the Actuary's April 22, 2010 memorandum on the estimated financial effects of the Affordable Care Act, we noted that by 2019 the update reductions would result in negative total facility margins for about 15 percent of hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and home health agencies. This estimated percentage would continue to increase, reaching roughly 25 percent in 2030 and 40 percent by 2050. In practice, providers could not sustain continuing negative margins and, absent legislative changes, would have to withdraw from providing services to Medicare beneficiaries, merge with other provider groups, or shift substantial portions of Medicare costs to their non-Medicare, non-Medicaid payers." ("Projected Expenditures Under An Illustrative Scenario With Alternative Payment Updates To Medicare Providers," Center For Medicare & Medicaid Services, 5/13/11)
 "Romney said Wednesday that, if elected, he would seek to reverse the Medicare cuts along with repealing the rest of the health reform law." (Noam N. Levey, "The Fight Over Medicare: Answers To 5 Key Questions," 
, 8/17/12)
 "Mitt's plan honors commitments to current seniors while giving the next generation an improved program that offers the freedom to choose what their coverage under Medicare should look like. Instead of paying providers directly for medical services, the government's role will be to help future seniors pay for an insurance option that provides coverage at least as good as today's Medicare, and to offer traditional Medicare as one of the insurance options that seniors can choose." (
, 10/2/12)