"Today's studies make clear that there is only one candidate who will raise taxes on the middle class — and that's President Obama. After already hiking taxes on nearly five million middle-class Americans, President Obama's second-term spending plans will likely require yet another tax increase. Mitt Romney will deliver relief to middle-class families, cut tax rates for all Americans, and finally get our nation's spending under control." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 "In a new paper, AEI's Matt Jensen looks at the real annual cost of servicing the debt for households at various levels of income — including a potentially higher tax burden. As the table below illustrates, a household making between $100,000 and $200,000 a year could find its tax liability higher by roughly $2,400 every year. Over ten years, that works out to $24,000. And when you add in the debt already accrued the past four years under President Obama (the second table), that's another $1,600 a year. So now we are now talking about $4,000 a year, $40,000 over ten years." (James Pethokoukis, "Study: Obama's Big Budget Deficits Could Mean A $4,000 A Year Middle-Class Tax Hike," 
, 10/2/12)
 "Some of the specific assumptions that TPC made in its analysis of Romney's tax plan are also highly questionable. By reconsidering just three components of the TPC's analysis, the conclusions it draws get turned upside down." (Alex Brill, "The Romney Tax Plan: Not a Tax Hike on the Middle Class," 
, 10/1/12)
 "Romney has proposed a bold tax reform that would broaden the tax base and lower statutory tax rates across the board. While maintaining preferential rates for savings and investment, his proposal repeals the tax expenditures that distort economic decisions and add complexity to tax returns." (Alex Brill, "The Romney Tax Plan: Not a Tax Hike on the Middle Class," 
, 10/1/12)
 "This short paper outlines the tax implications of current Administration spending plans. If spending plans are unchanged, it appears inevitable that the middle class will face higher taxes." (Doug Holtz Eakin, "Middle Class Math: The Tax Implications Of Administration Spending Plans," 
, 10/12)
 "Assuming that one-half the adjustment occurs on the tax side, and that higher taxes are phased in slowly, taxpayers making as little $30,000 will face higher taxes that average as much as $1,500 annually over the next 10 years." (Doug Holtz Eakin, "Middle Class Math: The Tax Implications Of Administration Spending Plans," 
, 10/12)
 "Nonetheless, in his first campaign for the White House, Obama pledged not to raise taxes on individuals making less than $200,000 a year and couples making less than $250,000. And the budget office analysis found that nearly 80 percent of those who'll face the penalty would be making up to or less than five times the federal poverty level." ("Tax Penalty To Hit Nearly 6M Uninsured People," 
, 9/19/12)
 ("Payments Of Penalties For Being Uninsured Under The Affordable Care Act," 
, 9/12)