OBAMA: "Now, we all know that we've got to do more. And so I've put forward a specific $4 trillion deficit-reduction plan. It's on a website. You can look at all the numbers, what cuts we make and what revenue we raise. And the way we do it is $2.50 for every cut, we ask for a dollar of additional revenue, paid for, as I indicated earlier, by asking those of us who have done very well in this country to contribute a little bit more to reduce the deficit." (President Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Denver, CO, 10/3/12)
(Glenn Kessler, "Fact Checking Bill Clinton's Speech And Other Democrats At The Convention In Charlotte," 
s "
," 9/6/12)
 "We are encouraged that President Obama has embraced the goal of stabilizing the debt and the target of achieving at least $4 trillion in deficit reduction. Unfortunately, his proposal falls short of this goal by counting war savings that were already planned; and while it does (barely) stabilize the debt, it does so at a dangerously high level and with no margin for error. We are disappointed, too, that the president did not address the long-term solvency of Social Security."(Alan Simpson And Erskine Bowles, Op-Ed, "Go Big, Be Bold, Be Smart," 
, 10/2/11)
OBAMA: "$716 billion we were able to save from the Medicare program by no longer overpaying insurance companies, by making sure that we weren't overpaying providers. And using that money, we were actually able to lower prescription drug costs for seniors by an average of $600, and we were also able to make a -- make a significant dent in providing them the kind of preventive care that will ultimately save money through the -- throughout the system. So the way for us to deal with Medicare in particular is to lower health care costs." (President Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Denver, CO, 10/3/12)
 (Congressional Budget Office, 
, 7/24/12)
 "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs." (Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," 
, 4/23/10)
(Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)
OBAMA: "The problem is that because the voucher wouldn't necessarily keep up with health care inflation, it was estimated that this would cost the average senior about $6,000 a year." (President Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Denver, CO, 10/3/12)
 "But there are some problems with that figure. First of all, it's only an estimate. Second of all, it's for the year 2022. But a bigger problem is that this dollar figure is an estimate for an earlier version of Ryan's plan. He's since changed it significantly to address some of the loudest complaints." (Glenn Kessler, "Factcheck: Sebelius' $6,400 Number Has Issues," 
, 9/4/12)
(Lori Robertson, "A Campaign Full Of Mediscare," 
, 8/22/12)
 (Sarah Kliff, "No, Romney-Ryan Wouldn't Increase Medicare Costs By $6,400," 
 "
," 9/4/12)
OBAMA: "Number one, if you've got health insurance it doesn't mean a government take over. You keep your own insurance. You keep your own doctor." (President Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Denver, CO, 10/3/12)
 "President Barack Obama promised over and over during the health care debate that 'if you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.' It turns out that, for a lot of people, that isn't true." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
OBAMA: "And the fact is that if you are lowering the rates the way you describe, Governor, then it is not possible to come up with enough deductions and loopholes that only affect high-income individuals to avoid either raising the deficit or burdening the middle class. It's -- it's math. It's arithmetic." (President Barack Obama, Presidential Debate, Denver, CO, 10/3/12)
 "Some of the specific assumptions that TPC made in its analysis of Romney's tax plan are also highly questionable. By reconsidering just three components of the TPC's analysis, the conclusions it draws get turned upside down." (Alex Brill, "The Romney Tax Plan: Not a Tax Hike on the Middle Class," 
, 10/1/12)
 "Even modest economic growth makes a difference. And finally, the important factor that I discussed above. Based on Table 3-1 of the "Analytical Perspectives" report by the president's Office of Management and Budget, I compute that if the economy were to grow just 0.1 percentage point faster per year as a result of the reform, the additional revenue in 2015 would be approximately $13 billion. The result: A $12 billion tax increase on the middle class actually becomes a tax cut. And just like that, the Democrats' attacks that Romney wants to raise taxes on the middle class become false." (Alex Brill, "The Romney Tax Plan: Not a Tax Hike on the Middle Class," 
, 10/1/12)
 "Mitt Romney has proposed comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform that will lower tax rates for every American, provide certainty for job creators, and get our economy back on track. This plan will maintain the current progressivity of the tax code and it includes tax relief for middle-class families, small businesses, and millions of Americans penalized by outdated and inefficient tax laws. It will not raise taxes." (Jonathan Burks, "Pro-Growth Tax Reform Is Critical To A Real Recovery," 
, Accessed 9/27/12)
 "In a new paper, AEI's Matt Jensen looks at the real annual cost of servicing the debt for households at various levels of income — including a potentially higher tax burden. As the table below illustrates, a household making between $100,000 and $200,000 a year could find its tax liability higher by roughly $2,400 every year. Over ten years, that works out to $24,000. And when you add in the debt already accrued the past four years under President Obama (the second table), that's another $1,600 a year. So now we are now talking about $4,000 a year, $40,000 over ten years." (James Pethokoukis, "Study: Obama's Big Budget Deficits Could Mean A $4,000 A Year Middle-Class Tax Hike," 
, 10/2/12)