"Voters have a clear choice facing them in November on the future of health care. If President Obama is re-elected, Obamacare will drive millions of Americans from their employer-provided insurance, continue increasing health care costs for consumers, and raid Medicare of $716 billion. Mitt Romney will work — from day one — to repeal and replace this disastrous law with reforms that provide better care at lower costs." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 ("Employer Health Benefits, 2012 Annual Survey, Exhibit 6.4" 
, 2012)
 "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," 
, 1/4/12)
 "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," 
, 3/16/12)
 (Congressional Budget Office, 
, 7/24/12)
 "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs." (Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," 
, 4/23/10)
 (Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)