"Yesterday, President Obama said the most important lesson he's learned is that 'you can't change Washington from the inside.' The candidate of 'yes we can' has become the president of 'no I can't.' Four years after promising Virginians real change, Barack Obama hasn't changed Washington, fixed the economy, or lived up to the promises he made. Americans are ready for a new direction, and Mitt Romney will get our country back on the right track." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "And you know, I think that I've learned some lessons over the last four years. And the most important lesson I've learned is that you can't change Washington from the inside. You can only change it from the outside." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At Univision Forum, 9/20/12)
 "President Obama is still coming to Prince William County Friday, but he'll be in Woodbridge, not Manassas. The president's campaign announced last week that he would appear in Manassas, but the location has shifted has shifted to Woodbridge, the campaign said Monday." (Laura Vozzella, "Obama To Campaign In Woodbridge Friday," 
, 9/17/12)
 OBAMA: "Here's my point, Virginia: That's how this thing was started. It shows you what one voice can do! One voice can change a room! And if a voice can change a room, it can change a city! And if it can change a city, it can change a state! And if it can change a state, it can change a nation! And if it can change a nation, it can change the world!" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Manassas, VA, 11/3/08)
 CNN's WOLF BLITZER: "When we spoke here end of 2008, 'hope and change.' You know what I see in Washington still to this day? OBAMA: "More of the same." BLITZER: "The same old same old." OBAMA: "Yeah." BLITZER: "A lot of bickering, backstabbing." OBAMA: "Maybe a little worse." (CNN's "
," 8/16/11)
 "The hard truth is that Washington next year will look indistinguishable from the one Obama warned against during his election-night victory speech, when he called on Republicans and Democrats to 'resist the temptation to fall back on the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long.'" (Carrie Budoff Brown and Jonathan Allen, "Partisan D.C.: Obama's Broken Promise," 
, 1/17/12)
 (CNN's "
," 3/8/12)
 "A president who promised to bring the country together, who confidently presented himself as the transformational figure able to make that happen, now had his chance. But, like earlier policy battles, the debt ceiling negotiations revealed a divided figure, a man who remained aloof from a Congress where he once served and that he now needed. He was caught between his own aspirations for historical significance and his inherent political caution. And he was unable to bridge a political divide that had only grown wider since he took office with a promise to change the ways of Washington, underscoring the gulf between the way he campaigned and the way he had governed." (Peter Wallsten, Lori Montgomery, and Scott Wilson, "Obama's Evolution: Behind The Failed 'Grand Bargain' On The Debt," 
, 3/17/12)