"In recent weeks, President Obama has cited several failures as his greatest — not being a better storyteller, not reforming immigration, and now his inability to change the tone in Washington. But President Obama just doesn't get it. With 23 million Americans struggling for work, anemic economic growth, and nearly 1 in 6 Americans living in poverty, his greatest failure — by far — is his broken promise to fix the economy. Americans know this is his greatest failure, and they will hold him accountable in November." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "On 60Minutes, POTUS to ScottPelley: 'biggest disappointment is we haven't changed the tone in Washington as much as I would have liked'" (
, 9/23/12)
 " 'The mistake of my first term — couple of years — was thinking that this job was just about getting the policy right,' Obama told CBS News' Charlie Rose. 'And that's important, but, you know, the nature of this office is also to tell a story to the American people that gives them a sense of unity and purpose and optimism, especially during tough times.'" (Mary Bruce, "Obama's Mistake: Not Telling The 'Story' Better To The American People," 
, 7/12/12)
 "Asked about the biggest mistake of his first term, the president relented. 'As you remind me, my biggest failure so far is we haven't gotten comprehensive immigration reform done, so we're going to be continuing to work on that,' he admitted." (Mary Bruce, "Obama Blames GOP For Inability To Pass Immigration Reform," 
, 9/20/12)
 (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, 
, 9/10/12)
 "The Labor Department says rates increased in 26 states. They fell in 12 states and were unchanged in the other 12." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Unemployment Rates Rise In Half Of US States," 
, 9/21/12)
 "The income of the typical U.S. family fell or was flat in almost every state last year, with the drop particularly steep in places where the economy has been hit hard by the housing bust." (Josh Mitchell, "Incomes Fell Or Stagnated In Most States Last Year," 
, 9/20/12)
 "The gap between rich and poor Americans grew in 2011 as the poverty rate remained at almost a two-decade high. The U.S. Census Bureau released figures today that showed household income fell, underscoring a sputtering economic recovery that's at the heart of the presidential campaign." (Catherine Dodge and Frank Bass, "Rich-Poor Gap Widens To Most Since 1967 As Income Falls," 
, 9/12/12)
 "The findings highlight concerns about a shrinking middle class and pose another obstacle to getting the economy back on track, said Annette Bernhardt, policy co-director at the National Employment Law Project, which conducted the study." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," 
, 8/31/12)