"President Obama's report on sequestration confirmed what we've known for months — his defense cuts will devastate our national security and jeopardize jobs across the country. Americans deserve real leadership from their president and an honest plan to spare the country from these catastrophic cuts. As president, Mitt Romney will never play politics with our defense budget." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 "President Barack Obama on Friday detailed how roughly $120 billion in cuts to the Pentagon and domestic programs will be applied if Congress doesn't shut off a planned "sequester" before the end of the year, casting blame on Congress for failing to bring spending and taxes into line and address the nation's $16 trillion debt." (Austin Wright and Jonathan Allen, "White House Releases Sequester Details," 
, 9/14/12)
 "The overview: There would be a 9.4 percent cut to most defense programs — except those exempted in the sequestration law — and a 10 percent cut to a handful of other Pentagon accounts that are not subject to annual congressional appropriations. ... The president and his Democratic allies say that Republicans have put at risk the nation's defenses..." (Austin Wright and Jonathan Allen, "White House Releases Sequester Details," 
, 9/14/12)
 "The book 'The Price of Politics,' by Washington Post Associate Editor Bob Woodward, makes it clear the idea for the draconian spending cuts originated in the White House — and not in Congress. According to the book, excerpts of which were obtained by POLITICO ahead of the Sept. 11 release, President Barack Obama's top deputies believed the prospect of massive defense cuts would compel Republicans to agree to a deficit-cutting grand bargain. Then-OMB Director Jack Lew, now the White House chief of staff, and White House Legislative Affairs Director Rob Nabors pitched the idea to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Woodward writes." (Austin Wright, "Bob Woodward Book Could Bolster Republican Attack On W.H.," 
, 9/7/12)
 "A forthcoming book could give new ammunition to Republican hawks eager to blame the Obama administration for looming, across-the-board cuts to the defense budget. The book 'The Price of Politics,' by Washington Post Associate Editor Bob Woodward, makes it clear the idea for the draconian spending cuts originated in the White House — and not in Congress." (Austin Wright, "Bob Woodward Book Could Bolster Republican Attack On W.H.," 
, 9/7/12)
 (Bob Woodward, 
, 2012, p. 204)
 "According to the book, excerpts of which were obtained by POLITICO ahead of the Sept. 11 release, President Barack Obama's top deputies believed the prospect of massive defense cuts would compel Republicans to agree to a deficit-cutting grand bargain. Then-OMB Director Jack Lew, now the White House chief of staff, and White House Legislative Affairs Director Rob Nabors pitched the idea to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), Woodward writes." (Austin Wright, "Bob Woodward Book Could Bolster Republican Attack On W.H.," 
, 9/7/12)
 "On the national side, including Defense, the State Department, Homeland Security and Veterans Affairs, Lew said, 'We are beginning a strategic review — a fast strategic review is being initiated. But it's possible to talk about the numbers without Defense being on the table.' 'Veterans Affairs,' Biden interrupted in some wonderment. The military was sacred, and it could be political suicide for Democrats to consider cuts for vets. 'This is a dangerous area,' he acknowledged, 'but we should look at it.'" (Bob Woodward, 
, 2012, p. 115)
 "The House of Representatives voted Thursday afternoon to pass the GOP's plan to replace the sequestration or automatic cuts that would have slashed the defense budget with another set of budget reductions that curtail domestic programs." (John Parkinson, "House Passes Bill Stemming Defense Cuts," 
, 5/10/12)
 "'Sequestration ($1 trillion in cuts) assumes across the board spending cuts with losses peaking in the 2013-2014 time period, with 1 million to 1.5 million jobs lost and that could increase the U.S. unemployment rate by nearly 1 percentage point in the near term,' said Lt. Col. Elizabeth Robbins, a spokeswoman of the Department of Defense." (Sean Gorman, "Rep. Randy Forbes Says 1.53 Million Defense Jobs Are 'At Risk,'" 
, 10/12/11)
 "Defense Secretary Leon Panetta spelled out a doomsday scenario Monday that he said could occur if Congress fails to take action to avoid a $1 trillion cut in defense spending over the next decade. Panetta, responding to a letter from Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsay Graham, said cuts of nearly $100 billion a year would leave the United States with its smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest air force in its history." (David Alexander, "Panetta Spells Out Budget Cut Doomsday Fears," 
, 11/14/11)
 PANETTA: "And let me tell you something if sequester goes into effect, you can throw all of this out the window. Sequester doubles the numbers of cuts, does it through that crazy formula, and guarantees that we are going to hollow the force and devastate our national security." (Secretary Leon Panetta, Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee On Defense, U.S. House Of Representatives, Testimony, 2/16/12)