"For nearly four years, middle-class families have struggled with fewer jobs and fewer opportunities in the Obama economy. And the President's policies toward China have only made things worse — they've cost hundreds of thousands of jobs and left American manufacturing in decline. As president, Mitt Romney will take immediate action to stop China's cheating and protect American jobs here at home." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 (Don Lee, "U.S. Declines To Label China A Currency Manipulator," 
, 5/25/12; Pedro Nicolaci da Costa, "U.S. Again Says China Not Currency Manipulator," 
, 12/28/11; Gregg Robb, "Treasury Says China Isn't A Currency Manipulator," 
, 5/27/11; Sewell Chan, "China's Currency Avoids "Manipulated" Ruling Again," 
, 2/04/11; Gregg Robb, "Treasury Does Not Cite China As Currency Manipulator," 
, 7/8/10; Martin Crutsinger, "Administration Declines To Cite China On Currency Manipulation," 
, 10/15/09; Glenn Somerville and Doug Palmer, "U.S. Again Declines To Brand China Currency Manipulator," 
, 4/15/09)
 "American jobs have been shifting to low-wage countries for years, and the trend has continued during Obama's presidency. From 2008 to 2010, U.S. trade with China alone cost about 450,000 American jobs because of the growth of Chinese exports, said Robert E. Scott, a pro-labor advocate at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. That figure was less than in previous years, but the decrease was probably tied to the U.S. economic slowdown, which crimped demand for imports." (Tom Hamburger, Carol D. Leonnig and Zachary A. Goldfarb, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
, 7/9/12)
 OBAMA: "China is a competitor, but they don't have an enemy, as long as we understand that they are going to be negotiating aggressively for their advantage, and we've got to have a president in the White House who's negotiating to make sure that we're looking after American workers. That means enforcing our trade agreements; it means that if they're manipulating their currency, that we take them to the mat on the that issue..." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 REID: "China undervalues its currency to give its own exports an unwarranted advantage in the global marketplace. This costs American jobs by unjustly tilting the playing field against American manufacturers." (Senator Harry Reid, Floor Statement, U.S. Senate, 10/11/11)
 "'Once again, the U.S. Treasury Department has given China a free pass when it comes to its currency manipulation,' Brown said. 'While we're seeing American manufacturing rebound, China is stepping up its efforts in a number of critical sectors, including clean and solar energy, advanced manufacturing, and auto parts.'" (Senator Sherrod Brown, "Treasury Giving China A 'Free Pass' On Currency Manipulation," 
, 5/25/12)
 "Sen. Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.), who has been sponsored legislation that would punish Chinese imports for the undervalued currency, also criticized the administration's report. 'The administration continues to let China get away with flouting trade rules just for the sake of diplomacy. Calling out China as a manipulator may be awkward, but it is time to take off the kid glove,' he said in a statement.'" (Julian Pecquet, "Treasury: China Not Manipulating Currency," 
, 5/25/12)
 "'China's unfair trade practices and economic policies are harming companies and costing jobs in Pennsylvania and across the country,' said Senator Casey. 'I urge President Obama to address these concerns with the Chinese Vice President and pursue the aggressive policies I have advocated to give Pennsylvania workers and manufacturers a chance to compete.'" (Senator Bob Casey, Casey Urges Obama to Get Tough On China Ahead Of Visit From Chinese Vice President," 
, 2/14/12)
 HAGAN: "North Carolina is a manufacturing state, and we have lost over 100,000 jobs in this sector alone, much of it attributed to the manipulation of Chinese currency. You know, China has been playing games with its currency and we all know it. And it is time to get tough. And the American workers I know are the best in the world, and what they need is a fair playing field." (Senator Kay Hagan, Press Conference, U.S. Senate, 9/22/11)