"Yesterday, Governor Romney echoed his concerns about China's unfair trade practices and continued his fight for American jobs, while Vice President Biden disgracefully cited the Communist state-run news agency in launching attacks. The Vice President has taken an irresponsible approach to China, even endorsing the unconscionable one-child policy.  Mitt Romney will never back down to anyone — including China — and will fight for jobs and American values." — Ryan Williams, Romney Campaign Spokesman
 BIDEN: "And we're not the only ones who think it's laughable. I seldom ever quote from the Chinese—official Chinese news agency. Seriously, this is what the Chinese government news agency said, and I quote: 'it's rather ironic that a considerable portion of this China battering politician's wealth was actually obtained by doing business with Chinese companies before he entered politics' end of quote." (Vice  President Joe Biden, 
, Burlington, IA, 9/17/12)
 "To anyone familiar with China, the word 'Xinhua' is synonymous with official propaganda. For decades, it was through Xinhua News Agency, the official Communist news service, that the world heard about the crimes of those running dogs of capitalism." ("Bloomberg, Reuters--And Xinhua?," 
, 2/16/03)
 "The Chinese government has allowed some independent and investigative journalism in recent years. But Xinhua and CCTV — both of which answer to the Communist Party's propaganda ministry — retain a monopoly on all international news." (Andrew Jacobs, "Pursuing Soft Power, China Puts Stamp On Africa's News," 
, 8/16/12)
 "With more than 8,000 employees and 105 branches worldwide, the official news agency, Xinhua, is at the heart of censorship and disinformation put in place by the communist party. To mark the 56th anniversary of the People's Republic of China, Reporters Without Borders releases a report of an investigation into how this highly unusual news agency operates." (Reporters Without Borders, 
 9/30/05)
 "As a Democrat, I am horrified that @TheDemocrats would use Xinhua (official mouthpiece of Beijing regime) to counter Romney on his China ad." (
, 9/14/12)
 "Vice President Biden has emphatically backed away from his apparent endorsement of China's one-child policy. ...The one-child policy has rested on coercion, including forced sterilization and abortion, as well as incentives." (Editorial, "Mr. Biden Stumbles In China, Twice," 
, 8/24/11)
 "But as I was talking to some of your leaders, you share a similar concern here in China.  You have no safety net.  Your policy has been one which I fully understand -- I'm not second-guessing -- of one child per family.  The result being that you're in a position where one wage earner will be taking care of four retired people.  Not sustainable. So hopefully we can act in a way on a problem that's much less severe than yours, and maybe we can learn together from how we can do that."  (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Chengdu, China, 8/21/11)