"Candidate Obama campaigned on a promise to take China 'to the mat' for their currency manipulation — but President Obama just hasn't delivered. For nearly four years, the President has repeatedly refused to crack down on China's cheating, and American workers are the ones who have paid the price. As president, Mitt Romney will stand up for the middle class by creating jobs here at home and protecting American jobs abroad." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
 OBAMA: "China is a competitor, but they don't have an enemy, as long as we understand that they are going to be negotiating aggressively for their advantage, and we've got to have a president in the White House who's negotiating to make sure that we're looking after American workers. That means enforcing our trade agreements; it means that if they're manipulating their currency, that we take them to the mat on the that issue..." (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 
 (Senator Barack Obama, 
, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 "The Treasury Department, in its semiannual report Friday on exchange-rate policies, once again refrained from labeling China a currency manipulator -- an accusation that would embarrass Beijing and trigger negotiations and possibly even lead to U.S. sanctions." (Don Lee, "U.S. Declines To Label China A Currency Manipulator," 
, 5/25/12)
 "The Treasury Department on Wednesday declined to label China a currency manipulator, retreating from tough talk last year when a campaigning Barack Obama said Beijing had kept its currency's exchange rate unfairly low." (Glenn Somerville and Doug Palmer, "U.S. Again Declines To Brand China Currency Manipulator," 
, 4/25/09)
 "American jobs have been shifting to low-wage countries for years, and the trend has continued during Obama's presidency. From 2008 to 2010, U.S. trade with China alone cost about 450,000 American jobs because of the growth of Chinese exports, said Robert E. Scott, a pro-labor advocate at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. That figure was less than in previous years, but the decrease was probably tied to the U.S. economic slowdown, which crimped demand for imports." (Tom Hamburger, Carol D. Leonnig and Zachary A. Goldfarb, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
, 7/9/12)
 "But Obama's critics say the most important step the president could take — but hasn't — is to declare China a 'currency manipulator,' which could ultimately allow the U.S. government to erect tariffs to protect American industries. 'I'm perplexed by this decision because it runs counter to the goal of re-shoring jobs from China,' Scott Paul, head of the labor-backed Alliance for American Manufacturing, said in a May statement." (Tom Hamburger, Carol D. Leonnig and Zachary A. Goldfarb, "Obama's Record On Outsourcing Draws Criticism From The Left," 
, 7/9/12)
 (
, Accessed 9/11/12)
 "China's holdings of U.S. government securities were $1.164 trillion as of June, according to Treasury Department data released Aug. 15. China has increased its holdings this year, as the American economy stalled and Europe's sovereign-debt crisis deepened." (Tony Capaccio and Daniel Kruger, "China's U.S. Debt Holdings Aren't Threat, Pentagon Says," 
, 9/10/12)
 "The latest posting by the Treasury Department shows the national debt has now increased $4 trillion on President Obama's watch. The debt was $10.626 trillion on the day Mr. Obama took office. The latest calculation from Treasury shows the debt has now hit $14.639 trillion. It's the most rapid increase in the debt under any U.S. president." (Mark Knoller, "National Debt Has Increased $4 Trillion Under Obama," 
, 8/22/11)
 "That brought the ratio of debt to GDP to more than 100%. The Congressional Budget Office estimated last month the budget deficit for the 2012 fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, will be about $1.1 trillion." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Moody's Warns Of U.S. Credit Rating Cut If Debt Problems Continue," 
, 9/11/12)