, the President, having been duly notified by the National Mediation Board that a dispute between the Railway Express Agency, Incorporated, a carrier, and certain of its employees as they are represented by the following labor organization:
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers
which dispute has not been heretofore adjusted under the provisions of the Railway Labor Act, amended, now threatens substantially to interrupt interstate commerce to a degree such as to deprive Cincinnati, Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio, Newark, N.J., New York, N.Y., Philadelphia, Pa., St. Louis, Mo., San Francisco, Calif., Chicago, Ill., and twenty adjoining suburban cities of essential transportation services;
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, and by virtue of and under the authority in me vested by Section 10 of the Railway Labor Act, amended, do hereby create a board to be composed of 3 persons not pecuniarily or otherwise interested in any organization of railway employees or any carrier, to Investigate the aforementioned dispute and report its findings to me within 30 days from this date.
The members of this board shall be compensated for and on account of such duties in the sum of seventy-five dollars ($75.) for every day actually employed with or upon account of travel and duties incident to such board. The members will be reimbursed for and they are hereby authorized to make expenditures for expenses for themselves and of the board, including traveling expenses and in conformity with Public No. 212, 72d Congress, approved June 30, 1932, 11:30 a. m., not to exceed five dollars ($5.00) per diem for expenses incurred for subsistence. All expenditures of the Board shall be allowed and paid for out of the appropriation "National Mediation Board Appropriation Act, 1942" on the presentation of itemized vouchers properly approved by the chairman of the board hereby created.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this seventh day of November in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and forty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-sixth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL