In March 2014, the Obama Administration unveiled the 
—a key deliverable of the President's Climate Action Plan to cut carbon pollution in America, prepare communities for the impacts of climate change, and lead international efforts to address this global challenge. The Climate Data Initiative leverages the Federal Government's vast and open data resources to stimulate the kinds of innovation and entrepreneurship that can empower America's communities and businesses to take action against climate change and prepare for the future.
Today, building on the Climate Data Initiative's initial focus on coastal resilience, the Obama Administration is unveiling the Initiative's "Food Resilience" theme, aimed at empowering America's agricultural sector and strengthening the resilience of the global food system in a changing climate.
The 
, released in May, 2014, confirms that climate disruptions to agriculture have been increasing, are projected to become more severe over this century, and that climate-change effects on agriculture will have consequences for food security, both nationally and globally, through changes in crop yields and food prices, as well as effects on food processing, storage, transportation, and retailing.
That's why the Obama Administration is working to connect farmers, food distributors, and agricultural businesses with the data, tools, and information they need to understand how climate change impacts—such as more intense heat waves, heavier downpours, and severe droughts and wildfires out west
are affecting their operations today and steps they can take to both prepare for and help fight climate change.
To continue momentum under the Climate Data Initiative, 
. In response to this call, today's launch includes a number of commitments by Federal agencies and private-sector collaborators to combat climate change and support food resilience through data-driven innovation.
•    
, USDA will host two innovation workshops in Washington, DC, one with young and beginning farmers and another with food distributors, to spur the development of creative information-technology tools that can help farmers and those in the food supply chain to prepare for climate-change impacts.
•    
, USDA and NYU's Governance Lab (GovLab) will host an Open Data event in Washington, DC, focused on food resilience and climate change, as well as preparedness for food emergencies. The event will encourage dialogue between government agencies and the businesses and organizations that use their data, in support of the goals of the Climate Data Initiative.
•    
, concurrent with the US-Africa Leaders' Summit in Washington, D.C., the U.S. Government, IBM, and partners of the Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition Initiative will host a data-innovation event focused on developing technological innovations based on open data that can help address global food security and nutrition in Africa.
:
In addition to the food- and agriculture-focused commitments launching today, a host of new and ongoing efforts continue to broadly advance the President's Climate Data Initiative, including:
 
.