On Friday September 12, President Obama will host a ceremony at the White House with the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), President Bill Clinton and hundreds of AmeriCorps members to celebrate the 20th anniversary of AmeriCorps and recognize the 900,000 Americans who have served through AmeriCorps over the last two decades. The President will announce new commitments to improve pathways to employment for AmeriCorps alumni, encourage community service by young people and expand national service opportunities. These announcements include the following:
These new commitments are the latest in a series of actions the Administration has taken over the past five years to expand opportunities for Americans to serve, focus service on pressing challenges, foster social innovation, and increase the impact citizens have on our communities and nation. These actions include signing the 
 
 including FEMA Corps and School Turnaround AmeriCorps; and establishing the 
. The Task Force, created by the President in July of 2013, has pushed forward the goals of the Serve America Act by identifying additional opportunities for partnership and ways in which national service can serve as a pipeline to employment inside and outside the federal government.
Today's event is part of a nationwide celebration of the anniversary that includes tens of thousands of AmeriCorps members, alumni, and supporters reaffirming AmeriCorps' commitment to "get things done for America." The events kick off a year of service for some 75,000 AmeriCorps members serving coast to coast. Since its inception in 1994, AmeriCorps members have provided more than 1.2 billion hours of service, tackling some of the most pressing challenges facing America: educating millions of students for jobs of the 21st century, supporting individuals, families, and neighborhoods on the road to economic recovery; supporting veterans and military families; helping communities rebuild after natural disasters; improving at-risk ecosystems; and providing healthy futures.
President George H.W. Bush will mark the 20th Anniversary by participating in an AmeriCorps pledge ceremony at his home in Kennebunkport, Maine, and a video from President George W. Bush and Laura Bush will be shown at pledge ceremonies around the country.
This partnership recognizes that AmeriCorps and Peace Corps alumni are motivated, flexible, and outcome-oriented leaders who have developed valuable skills. Employers of National Service will help organizations take steps to recruit national service alumni. These steps include indicating interest in hiring national service alumni in relevant job postings and placing a checkbox on job applications that asks about past national service experience. Organizations that have already signed on as charter members of Employers of National Service include:
Today's announcements build upon earlier accomplishments of the President's Task Force on Expanding National Service and the My Brother's Keeper initiative. Both Presidential priorities are demonstrating that national service is a solution to address pressing national and local issues and a pathway to economic opportunity for those who serve. Federal agencies and private sector organizations have partnered with AmeriCorps to deliver on national priorities. These accomplishments include: