On June 24, 2014, the White House hosted the first-ever Global Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Human Rights Forum, bringing together the faith community, private sector, philanthropy, HIV and other health advocates, LGBT activists from around the world, and the broader human rights community to discuss how to work together with the U.S. government and others to promote respect for the human rights of LGBT individuals around the world. Participants discussed, among other topics, how to counter legislation that impinges on the rights of LGBT persons, the increasing enforcement in some countries of discriminatory laws that have been dormant for some time, and other threats to LGBT individuals globally.
The Forum is part of the U.S. government's ongoing efforts to use diplomacy and assistance to promote and protect the human rights of LGBT persons around the world. These efforts, which are governed by the landmark 
 on "International Initiatives to Advance the Human Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Persons," also include the following:
The United States supports programs that advance human rights and democracy for all; protect human rights defenders; train LGBT leaders to participate more effectively in democratic processes; and improve documentation of human rights violations and abuses.
We recognize the importance of acting quickly and effectively in countries where the rights of LGBT persons are at risk and have developed a rapid response mechanism to address situations of concern and persons at risk.
The United States is committed to identifying protection gaps for LGBT refugees and asylum seekers and developing targeted interventions to address those gaps.
The United States partners with a diverse group of countries to advocate for the human rights of LGBT persons at the United Nations and in other multilateral fora.
Through training, working groups, the development of personnel and external policies, and other mechanisms, department and agencies have redoubled their efforts to advance the human rights of LGBT persons. Such efforts include Peace Corps beginning in June 2013 to accept applications from same-sex couples to serve together abroad as Volunteers; USAID releasing its first LGBT Vision for Action; and the State Department developing an LGBT Toolkit to guide engagement at embassies globally and in Washington.