Today, President Obama will host the first ever White House Maker Faire and will meet with students, entrepreneurs and everyday citizens who are using new tools and techniques to launch businesses, learn vital skills in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), and lead a grassroots renaissance in American manufacturing.
As part of his year of action and this week's focus on efforts that will expand opportunity by spurring manufacturing, innovation and entrepreneurship, the President will also announce new steps the Administration and its partners are taking to increase the ability of more Americans, young and old, to have access to these tools and techniques and to bring their ideas to life.
America has always been a nation of tinkerers, inventors, and entrepreneurs. In recent years, a growing number of Americans have gained access to technologies such as 3D printers, laser cutters, easy-to-use design software, and desktop machine tools, with even more being created by the day. These tools are enabling more Americans to design and build almost anything.
The rise of the Maker Movement represents a huge opportunity for the United States. Nationwide, new tools for democratized production are boosting innovation and entrepreneurship in manufacturing, in the same way that the Internet and cloud computing have lowered the barriers to entry for digital startups, creating the foundation for new products and processes that can help to revitalize American manufacturing.
These tools, increasing access to nearby makerspaces, and events like Maker Faires across the country are inspiring a new generation of entrepreneurs, empowering Makers to launch manufacturing startups in the same way that Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs developed and marketed the first Apple Computer while participating in the Homebrew Computer Club. Mentors and educators are "passing it on" and inspiring boys and girls to invent, tinker, and learn vital skills in STEM education.
The first-ever White House Maker Faire comes just one day after the President visited TechShop Pittsburgh, a makerspace and fabrication studio where individuals can build and test their own products. During his visit, the President highlighted new efforts by his Administration and by more than 90 mayors to spur 
. Read more about their efforts 
 and 
.
The first-ever White House Maker Faire will feature over 100 Makers from more than 25 states, and include more than 30 exhibits. The President will view a subset of these exhibits, representing the incredible range of creativity and ingenuity unlocked by the Maker movement. Following his tour of the White House Maker Faire, the President will deliver remarks to an audience of entrepreneurs, students, business leaders, mayors, and heads of non-profit organizations. A more detailed backgrounder on the notable attendees, exhibitors and other honored Makers at the event is available 
.
New technologies for rapid prototyping - from laser cutters to CNC routers to 3D printers - have dramatically lowered the cost of developing a prototype and starting a business in manufacturing. The ability to rapidly and affordably test, tinker, monitor and customize places a premium on locating production close to American markets and opens new doors to entrepreneurship and innovation in manufacturing. The power of these emerging technologies creates the opportunity for Makers to launch new businesses, create jobs and build the industries of the future.
The Maker Movement can fuel the imagination of American students, and equip them with the skills they need to invent the future. Hands-on learning and Making not only promotes values such as creativity, problem-solving, collaboration, and self-expression, but can also serve as a path to get more girls and boys excited about STEM and about careers making things in manufacturing.
Additional details on the steps being taken by the more than 150 universities and colleges is available 
.
You can view the full list of 125 libraries and read more about their efforts 
.
 Our most pressing challenges require the passion, ingenuity and skills of Americans young and old. These citizen solvers can approach problems with fresh eyes, create new networks of partners and use these tools to design new solutions. This confluence of engaged citizens and tools is why a number of Federal agencies and private-sector partners believe that Makers can be a powerful complement in their strategies to tackle big problems.
: A growing community of space-enthusiasts has the ability to contribute to NASA's space exploration goals through their passion, technical expertise, and ability to use new additive technologies. To leverage this opportunity, NASA is announcing:
 
, in conjunction with the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Foundation. Middle and high school students will design items for 3D printing on ISS, and the winning student will watch from NASA's Payload Operations Center with the mission control team as the item is printed in space. NASA and the ASME Foundation will also promote these projects and others in Maker Community Challenge Showcases, in which student participants would have the opportunity to have their 3D designs printed at local Maker community locations and student participants would showcase their 3D designs in on online open hardware design repository.
, with the goal of broadening its reach to all 50 states by targeting the 21 "rookie states" that have had no previous CubeSat presence in space, and will leverage the existing NASA Space Grant network of colleges and universities. CubeSats provide the opportunity for Makers to build small satellites to demonstrate new innovative technologies and conduct scientific research in a space environment. To date, NASA has selected CubeSats from 29 states, 17 of which have already been launched, and two more are slated to go to space later this year.
 that will challenge participants to find new ways to create safe shelters using locally available materials and constructed at the point of use.