President Obama's all-of-the-above energy strategy recognizes that we need to deploy American assets, innovation, and technology in order to safely and responsibly develop more energy here at home and be a leader in the global energy economy. This means tapping into every ounce of America's creativity and ingenuity to catalyze innovations that provide consumers with choices to reduce costs, save energy, and protect the environment.
This approach calls for all hands on deck—including private-sector entrepreneurs, technologists, and innovators who are critical to building the tools, services, and infrastructure needed to support a clean energy economy. Both the public and private sectors have an important role to play in continuing our progress to develop and deploy renewable energy sources, strengthen the electric grid, drive more advanced and fuel-efficient vehicles, and cut energy waste in homes and businesses.
Since its earliest days, the Obama Administration has recognized that freely available data from the U.S. Government is an important national asset, serving as fuel for entrepreneurship, innovation, scientific discovery, and economic growth. That is why the Federal Government has taken unprecedented steps to make open data more available to citizens, companies, and innovators—including by launching both an 
 and a 
.
The Administration has also long recognized the value of providing homes and businesses with secure access to their own energy usage data to spur innovation and enable informed choices. In 2012, the Administration launched a Green Button Initiative in partnership with the electric utility industry to provide families and business with easy and secure access to their own energy usage information. Today, over 100 million Americans have access to their own "
" data — and the opportunity to use new private sector tools and services to manage or upgrade their own household or building energy performance.
To continue this momentum, today the White House, the Department of Energy, and the General Services Administration are hosting an "Energy Datapalooza" to announce new steps forward in support of clean energy innovation, and to highlight private-sector innovators who are harnessing the power of data to advance the clean energy economy.