The progress report on the President's National Travel and Tourism Strategy can be found 
.
As a part of his Year of Action, the President is using the power of his pen and phone wherever he can on behalf of the American people to create jobs and help hardworking Americans get ahead. The President will travel to Cooperstown, New York to visit the Baseball Hall of Fame - an economic engine in upstate New York. The Hall of Fame draws nearly 300,000 visitors annually, helping to drive more than $160 million into the economy of Otsego County each year. In fact, it is projected that each Hall of Fame visitor generates an estimated $500 in spending into the regional economy.
The President will discuss the Administration's efforts to support increased travel and tourism in the United States - helping local businesses and growing the economy for everyone. Before heading to Cooperstown, the President will use the power of his pen to sign a Presidential Memorandum to help welcome more international visitors to our country, making it easier for foreign tourists to see more and spend more in the United States. The President will also utilize his phone - his power to convene - and meet with travel and tourism industry CEOs and senior executives at the White House to discuss their vital industry, which supports nearly 8 million jobs across the country and is a major driver of our economy.
From our cities to national parks, every year millions of people travel across America. Those visits support nearly 8 million American jobs— jobs that can't be outsourced at thousands of local and small businesses. As a part of his Year of Action, the President is using the power of his pen and phone wherever he can on behalf of the American people to create jobs and help hardworking Americans get ahead. This week, the President has highlighted the importance of investing in America and today he is taking action to welcome more international visitors to our country - because making it easier for more foreign visitors to travel to and spend money at America's attractions and national parks helps local businesses and grows the economy for everyone.
That is why the President launched a National Travel and Tourism Strategy in 2012 and set an ambitious goal of attracting and welcoming 100 million international visitors annually by the end of 2021. 
. Today, the Administration released a new report 
 that highlights the many economic benefits to the United States from increased travel and tourism, and the progress that the Administration has made in implementing the President's strategy.
Tourism is America's most important, and largest, services export: 
 and meeting President Obama's goal of 100 million visitors in 2021 will support hundreds of thousands of additional jobs.
 at American hotels, shops, restaurants, and other domestic businesses.
Steps taken by the Administration have supported this impressive growth: 
. The Department of Homeland Security has significantly expanded Trusted Traveler and expedited clearance programs that improve the experience of travelers entering the United States.
Through close partnership with airports and industry, 
 At Dallas Fort Worth and Chicago O'Hare, a combination of measures such as Automated Passport Control kiosks and Global Entry services 

        
: Over the next 120 days, Secretary Pritzker and Secretary Johnson will lead an interagency team, in close partnership with industry, to develop a national goal to improve the entry process and reduce wait times for international travelers to the United States, and action plans at the 15 largest airports for international arrivals, consistent with progress achieved at Dallas Fort Worth and Chicago O'Hare airports where, through a combination of streamlining processes and upgrading technologies, wait times were reduced significantly.
: The Department of Homeland Security is expanding the use of technology to streamline the entry process, such as Automated Passport Control kiosks.
 The Departments of Commerce, State, Agriculture, Homeland Security, Transportation and the Interior will take additional steps to encourage travelers to visit the United States, including launching coordinated strategies with BrandUSA in ten international markets, creating a "one-stop" that supports international bids for major global events and launching a new "virtual visitor services" platform to increase tourism on public lands and waters.