Yesterday, the White House and U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), in coordination with the National League of Cities, announced the launch of the 
 initiative, a partnership with U.S. cities to develop online tools that let entrepreneurs discover and apply—in less than a day—for local, state, and federal requirements needed to start a business.

"I'm calling on city halls across the country to join the initial eleven mayors in a simple but powerful pledge to entrepreneurs and small business owners: If you want to start a business, we'll make it so easy to navigate the license and permitting system online, that you'll be off and running within 24 hours," said President Obama.

Also yesterday, the White House announced August 4 as the date for the first-ever 
, which will bring together entrepreneurs from all walks of life, from all across the country, to "demo" individual success stories and build on efforts like Startup in a Day to empower diverse innovators from around the country to launch and scale companies.



As any entrepreneur or small business owner knows, starting or expanding a business often entails dealing with considerable red tape, from setting up a legal business structure, to understanding zoning laws and licensing requirements, to acquiring various permits. 
 that small business owners are potentially more frustrated by mundane red tape than by other obstacles.

The good news is that fairly simple and affordable technological solutions exist to digitize, consolidate, and condense into a matter of hours the licensing and permitting requirements that can otherwise take days or weeks of an entrepreneur's time—time more productively spent on developing goods and services, finding customers, and growing the business.

To encourage adoption of these technological solutions, the Administration yesterday announced a package of federal, local, and nonprofit commitments that ensure American small business owners spend less time navigating red tape—and more time creating jobs.


• 
: The President launched a national call to action encouraging local leaders around the country to sign onto the Startup in a Day pledge, which has already been adopted by a eleven pioneering mayors.

• 
: The Small Business Administration will announce a 
 for seed grants to cities committed to building Startup in a Day solutions. The SBA will also work with other agencies to develop improved online solutions addressing the relatively few federal requirements that small businesses typically need to navigate when starting up.

• 
: The National League of Cities, which represents thousands of municipal leaders around the country, is establishing a Startup in a Day partnership with SBA to support and coordinate this effort. 


The President issued a national call-to-action to America's mayors to each develop a local online permitting and licensing tool, following the lead of pioneering cities including Boston, San Francisco, Salt Lake City, and Kansas City, among others that have taken meaningful steps in this direction.

These solutions typically take the form of a city-based website that asks entrepreneurs about their proposed business, generates a customized menu of regulatory requirements, and lets them apply for all permits and manage the application process from a single interface.











The following cities committed to launching Startup in a Day solutions within 12 months.


1. Boston, MA
 2. Chattanooga, TN
 3. Denver, CO
 4. Fresno, CA
 5. Kansas City, MO
 6. Nashville, TN
 7. San Francisco, CA
 8. St. Petersburg, FL
 9. Salt Lake City, UT
 10. Seattle, WA
 11. Washington, DC 
Many of these cities have already made significant progress and investment in developing online tools that let entrepreneurs navigate and apply for startup permits and licenses in less than a day.

For example, new online permitting tools unveiled last year by Boston Mayor Marty Walsh have increased on-time permit issuance by 12 percent, shortened the time to review and issue long-form permit by 8 business days, and shrunk the backlog of building complaints from 3,500 to fewer than 300.



To support more mayors in this effort, SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet announced the launch of an SBA competition to fund, in more than two-dozen communities nationwide, the development of online tools that satisfy the Startup in a Day pledge. The SBA also announced its commitment to developing a federal companion tool to the digital solutions being developed by Startup in a Day cities. The federal tool will enable business owners to quickly identify and apply for the relatively few federal permits and requirements needed to start the typical small business, such as applying for an IRS Employer ID Number, conducting a trademark search, and understanding Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards.

. The SBA is launching a $1.5 million competition which will by summer's end award $50,000 financial prizes to 25 communities around the country committed to adopting Startup in a Day goals and online tools. An additional $250,000 in prizes will go to consortia of local and state governments who team up to develop tools that cover multiple regions, or that can be easily repurposed by other localities. The President's 2016 budget request doubles this incentive fund, so it can directly benefit dozens more communities.

 The SBA will also develop a companion service to the city-level tools being developed as part of the Startup in a Day initiative. This companion service—delivered either as a website or application that can be integrated into city tools—will make it easy for entrepreneurs to identify and apply within hours for the few federal requirements (e.g. from the IRS, Department of Labor, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) often required of a small business at launch.



The National League of Cities (NLC) will provide implementation support to Startup in a Day cities, under a partnership with the Small Business Administration. NLC will create a platform for municipal leaders—including mayors, chief innovation officers, permitting staff, economic development and small business staff—to collaborate and share common challenges and proven strategies to meeting the Startup in a Day goals. Through its Center for City Solutions and Applied Research, NLC will leverage its capacity to deliver high quality, effective peer-to-peer learning, research, and best practices to help cities create a more business-friendly ecosystem. NLC is a member-driven resource and advocacy organization representing thousands of cities throughout the country.



Small businesses are the engines of job creation and the lifeblood of our nation's economy. They create two of every three new jobs and employ just over half of the country's private sector workforce. The Administration has made it a priority, therefore, to eliminate undue obstacles to small business creation. Among those obstacles is the time and energy entrepreneurs must spend understanding and applying for business licenses and permits. U.S. entrepreneurs spend nearly 6 days discovering, applying for, and managing licenses and permits before opening their doors, according to a 2015 study by the World Bank Group. User-friendly licensing and permitting are a more powerful predictor of a state's perceived friendliness toward small business than its tax regime, according to a 
 sponsored by the Kauffman Foundation.