Cyberspace touches almost every facet of society and connects people in ways never imagined. Rapidly emerging technologies have transformed economies and enhanced the ability of governments around the world to drive innovation and provide services and benefits to citizens. Yet, cybersecurity risks pose some of the most serious economic and national security challenges of the 21st Century. Technologies and systems of the past cannot keep pace with rapidly evolving and persistent cyber threats. That is why the Administration has led a broad strategy to combat cyber threats and strengthen the Federal Government's overall cybersecurity infrastructure.

In 2009, President Obama named the first Cybersecurity Coordinator and directed a comprehensive Cyberspace Policy Review to assess U.S. policies and structures for cybersecurity. Since then, the Administration has taken a number of aggressive actions to upgrade the Federal Government's technology infrastructure and protect government networks and information, implementing tools and policies in order to detect and mitigate evolving threats. And we have seen significant progress. Federal departments and agencies have implemented capabilities to better manage cyber vulnerabilities when they arise, and agencies are instituting new methods of conducting business like requiring employees to log-on to networks using privileged credentials, instead of other less secure means of identification and authentication. Still, recent events underscore the need to accelerate the Administration's cyber strategy and confront aggressive, persistent malicious actors that continue to target our nation's cyber infrastructure.

To further improve Federal cybersecurity and protect systems against these evolving threats, United States Chief Information Officer (CIO) Tony Scott recently launched a 30-day Cybersecurity Sprint. As part of the effort, the Federal CIO has instructed Federal agencies to immediately take a number of steps to further protect Federal information and assets and improve the resilience of Federal networks.

:

In addition to providing guidance to agencies, Federal CIO Scott also established a Cybersecurity Sprint Team, to lead a 30-day review of the Federal Government's cybersecurity policies, procedures, and practices. The team is comprised of the Office of Management and Budget's (OMB) E-Gov Cyber and National Security Unit (E-Gov Cyber), the National Security Council Cybersecurity Directorate (NSC Cyber), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the Department of Defense (DOD). At the end of the review, the Federal CIO will create and operationalize a set of action plans and strategies to further address critical cybersecurity priorities and recommend a 
.

:
