One day after launching his campaign for president in the 2016 election, Senator Lindsey Graham released the names of his South Carolina Finance Committee, which includes more than 100 top business and community leaders from across the Palmetto State.
"This list is a ‘Who's Who' in the South Carolina business and professional community," said Graham's Finance Committee Chairman David Wilkins, former U.S. Ambassador to Canada. "There has never been a more impressive Finance Committee for a presidential campaign in South Carolina. Bringing this group together is a remarkable statement about how much these top leaders respect and support Lindsey Graham and the unique qualifications he brings to this presidential race."
Graham's S.C. finance committee includes top fundraisers for numerous campaigns going back nearly 20 years, including top finance leaders for Bush for President, McCain for President, Romney for President, DeMint for Senate, Sanford for Governor and Haley for Governor.
"The members of our team know that Lindsey Graham is a leading voice on national security and foreign policy," Wilkins said. "We are living in a very dangerous world, and Lindsey Graham is ready to serve as Commander in Chief on Day One."
Anita Zucker, CEO of the InterTech Group and co-chair of Graham's finance committee added her reasons for backing Graham. "Our nation needs a president with the courage to take action on the most difficult issues facing America," Zucker said. "Lindsey Graham embodies the governing qualities we need to put our country back on the right path."
In releasing the names of his S.C. finance team, Lindsey Graham expressed his personal gratitude. "I'm deeply honored to have the support of all these major job creators and community leaders from across South Carolina," Graham said. "This team has delivered for past Republican presidential nominees, and I appreciate their tremendous efforts as we launch this new campaign for America's future."
The members of Lindsey Graham 2016's South Carolina Finance Committee are:
 of Greenville, Partner at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough. Former U.S. Ambassador to Canada and former SC Speaker of the House of Representatives. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014. DeMint for Senate Finance Co-Chair 2010. Bush campaign South Carolina Chairman 2004. Bush campaign South Carolina Co-Chair 2000. Thurmond for Senate Campaign Chairman 1996.
 of Columbia, Real Estate Executive. Romney Finance Committee 2012. McCain Finance Committee 2008. SC GOP Victory 2008 Finance Co-Chair.
 of Greenville, Managing Partner of Sky Boat Gaming.
 of Charleston, Self-Employed Attorney. Romney Finance Committee 2012. McCain Finance Committee 2008. DeMint for Senate Finance Committee Co-Chair 2004. Bush Finance Committee 2000. Former U.S. Attorney for South Carolina.
 of Florence, Surgeon with Floyd Medical Associates. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Sanford for Governor Finance Committee Co-Chair 2006. DeMint for Senate Finance Team Co-Chair 2004. Bush Ranger and South Carolina Finance Co-Chair in 2004. Bush Pioneer and Finance Committee 2000.
 of Spartanburg, Chairman of Johnson Development, Inc. McCain Finance Committee 2008. DeMint for Senate Finance Committee 2004. Bush Pioneer in 2000 and 2004.
 of Greenville, Chairman and CEO of Alice Manufacturing Company. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014. Romney Finance Committee 2012.
 of Mount Pleasant, Former U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania, Former SC Secretary of Commerce and retired banking executive. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Bush Finance Committee Chairman 2000. SC GOP Victory 2000 Finance Chairman.
 of Columbia, President of Stern & Stern Commercial Developers, Chairman of the Board of SC Ports Authority. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Sanford for Governor Finance Committee Chairman 2006. SC Inaugural Committee Chairman 2006.
 of Columbia, CEO of Southland Capital Partners. Former SC Secretary of Commerce.
 of Myrtle Beach, Business Consultant and former Real Estate Executive. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Bush Finance Committee 2000.
 of Lexington, Attorney at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough. Wilson for Attorney General 2010 Campaign Chairman.
 of Landrum, Attorney at Harrison, White, Smith, & Coggins. Scott for Senate Finance Committee 2014. McMaster for Lieutenant Governor Finance Committee 2014. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Bush Finance Committee 2004. Bush Finance Committee 2000.
 of Charleston, Chair and CEO of The InterTech Group. Scott for Senate Finance Committee 2014. Romney Finance Committee 2012.
 of Greenville, President and CEO of The Capital Corporation. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014.
. of Myrtle Beach, President and CEO of Burroughs & Chapin Inc.
 of Spartanburg, President of Vic Bailey Automotive Superstore.
 of Charleston, Owner and President of Baker Motor Company.
 of Georgetown, Founding Partner at Bell Legal Group.
 of Columbia, Founder of Thermal Engineering Corp.
 of Greenville, Senior Counsel of Gear Solar. Bush Task Force 2004.
 of Anderson, President and COO of HMR Veterans Services, Inc. Romney Finance Committee 2012.
 of Rock Hill, former Restauranteur.
 of Seneca, Surgeon and Founder of Blue Ridge Orthopedics.
 of Rembert, General Manager of Green Energy Holdings, LLC.
 of Columbia, South Carolina President of BB&T. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014.
 of Chapin, CEO of Chernoff Newman.
 of Florence, Attorney at Willcox Law Firm. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Co-Chairman of DeMint for Senate Finance Committee 2004. Former U.S. Attorney for South Carolina.
 of Charleston, Chairman and CEO of Kraft Foods, Inc.
 of Columbia, President & COO of Chernoff Newman.
 of Walterboro, Chairman of Cannady Agency Inc.
 of Columbia, Chairman of Southeastern Freight Lines. Bush Finance Committee 2004. Bush Finance Committee 2000.
 of Columbia, President of Southeastern Freight Lines.
 of Inman, Chairman, CEO and Treasurer of Inman Mills.
of Charleston, Real Estate Development at Clement, Crawford & Thornhill.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Roe Cassidy Coates & Price PA.
 of Myrtle Beach, Chairman of the Professional Plumbing Group, Inc., Former President and CEO of Wolverine Brass, Inc., and Former President and CEO of Plumbmaster, Inc.
 of Greenville, President of Blue Ridge Electric Cooperative.
 of Lexington, President of Denny Public Affairs. Former Executive Director of the State Republican Party.
 of Pickens, Self-Employed Attorney.
 of Mount Pleasant, Owner and CEO of Convergent 3D.
 of Columbia, Partner at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough.
 of Chapin, Restaurateur, Blue Marlin Restaurant.
 of Columbia, Chairman of the Board of EDENS. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Bush Finance Committee 2004. Bush Finance Committee 2000.
 of North Myrtle Beach, President of Elliott Realty.
 of Pawleys Island, Board of Directors, Falk-Griffin Foundation.
 of Pawleys Island, Board of Directors, Falk-Griffin Foundation.
 of Kiawah Island. Board Member, ICI Mutual Insurance, Saturna Investment Trust, and the Amana Funds.
of Greenville, Attorney at Nexsen Pruet.
 of Spartanburg, President & CEO of Gibbs International.
 of Mount Pleasant, Self-Employed Attorney. Romney Finance Committee 2012. McCain Finance Committee 2008.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Covington Patrick Hagins Lewis.
 of Clover, President of ML Ford and Sons, Inc.
 of Columbia, Shareholder at Richardson, Plowden & Robinson.
 of Seneca, Real Estate Developer at Hamrick Real Estate.
 of Little River, President of A.O. Hardee & Son, Inc.
 of Columbia, Attorney at Willoughby and Hoefer PA.
 of Conway, Physician.
 of Greenville, CEO of General Wholesale Distributors.
 of Charleston, Self-Employed Attorney. Romney Finance Committee 2012. McCain Finance Committee 2008.
 of Charleston, Self-Employed Attorney. Co-Founder of the Harry and Reba Huge Foundation.
 of Greenville, President of Hughes Development Corp.
 of Florence, Physician with Allergy, Asthma & Sinus Center. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Sanford for Governor Finance Committee 2004.
 of Spartanburg, CEO of Morgan Corp.
 of Columbia, Attorney at McNair Law Firm. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Co-Chairman of Dole for President 1988.
 of Spartanburg, CEO of Johnson Development, Inc.
 of Bluffton, Attorney at Jones, Simpson and Newton.
 of Charleston.
 of Greenville, President and CEO of Kent Holdings.
 of Columbia, President of Kline Iron & Steel.
 of Greenville, President and Owner of Public Strategy, LLC.
 of Myrtle Beach, Owner of Wild Water & Wheels. Horry County Council Chairman.
 of Columbia, Managing Partner at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough.
 of Columbia, Owner of Enviro AgScience, Inc.
 of Greenville, Co-Founder of Eldeco Inc.
 of Lexington, Executive Director, Building Industry Association of Central, SC.
 of Spartanburg, Principal at RePower South.
 of Greenville.
 of Easley, Real Estate Developer at Nalley Commercial Properties, LLC.
 of Pawleys Island, Self-Employed Attorney. Former SC Congressman. Former Federal Judge. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Campbell for Governor 1990 Campaign Co-Chair. Reagan for President 1984 SC Co-Chair.
 of Florence, Vice President of Sales and Global Sales Manager for ADP Tax Credit Services.
 of Columbia, President and CEO of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of South Carolina.
 of Charleston, Attorney at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough.
 of Pawleys Island, President of Daedalus Management Solutions. Romney Finance Committee 2012.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough.
 of Barnwell, Attorney at Richardson, Patrick, Westbrook & Brickman.
 of Charleston, Attorney at Nexsen Pruet. Reagan for President Finance Committee.
 of Cameron, CEO of Patten Seed Company. McCain Finance Committee 2008.
 of Columbia, Executive at The Rountree Group.
 of Greenville, President of Micco, LLC.
 of Columbia, Attorney at Simmons Law Firm. Former U.S. Attorney for South Carolina.
 of Pauline, Attorney at Harrison, White, Smith, & Coggins. Former Spartanburg County Council Member.
 of Spartanburg, Attorney at Johnson, Smith, Hibbard & Wildman. Former Speaker Pro Tempore of the SC House of Representatives.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart.
 of Greenville, Chairman and Founder of Spinx Co. McCain Finance Committee 2008. DeMint for Senate Finance Team 2004.
 of Columbia, Managing Partner at Strom Law Firm, LLC. Former U.S. Attorney for South Carolina.
 of Effingham, Owner of McCall Farms.
 of Florence, President of Sopakco.
of Charleston, CEO of O.L. Thompson Construction Co., Inc.
 of Hilton Head, CEO of McNair Law Firm, PA. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014.
 of Columbia, Real Estate Executive.
 of Clemson, CEO of First Sun Management Corporation.
 of Surfside Beach, President of Vallarino Construction, LLC. Haley for Governor Finance Committee 2014. McMaster for Lt. Governor Finance Committee 2014.
 of Charleston, Chairman of the Board of The Beach Company. Former SC Secretary of Commerce.
 of Spartanburg, Co-Founder and Chairman of Advance America.
 of Mount Pleasant, Attorney at Richardson, Patrick, Westbrook & Brickman.
 of Greenville, Former President and CEO of The South Financial Group. McCain Finance Committee 2008.
 of Greenville, Chairman and Retired President of Michelin North America.
 of Greenville, 13th Judicial Circuit Solicitor. Former U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. Bush Finance Committee 2004.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Wilkins & Bouton, LLC.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Nexsen Pruet. Former Chief Judge of the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.
 of Greenville, Attorney at Law. Thurmond for Senate Finance Committee. Bush for President Finance Committee 1992.
 of Columbia, Partner at Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough. McCain Finance Committee 2008. Bush Finance Committee 2000. SC GOP Victory Finance Chairman 1998.
 of Myrtle Beach, President of DDC Engineers, Inc.
 of Graniteville, Owner of Sage Valley Golf Club.
 of Murrells Inlet, Co-Owner of The Yahnis Company.
 of Clemson, Former Real Estate Agent of Carolina Real Estate.