Alexandria, VA — Lindsey Graham 2016 today announced its National Finance Committee following the campaign's official launch on Monday, June 1.
"Only Lindsey Graham has shown he has the ability and commitment to provide the kind of leadership that will allow us to overcome our nation's challenges. He understands that America has an indispensable role to play in creating the stability and building the institutional capacity that are essential for growing markets and abiding security," said Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO of General Electric.
"Lindsey Graham understands America's leadership role in promoting an enduring peace on the global landscape. With conflicts raging in the Middle East and around the world that threaten the security of America and our allies, we need leaders with strategic purpose and moral clarity to confront these crises," said Ronald O. Perelman, Chairman and CEO of MacAndrews & Forbes Incorporated.
Please find the list of Lindsey Graham 2016's National Finance Committee below:
, Partner, Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough and former U.S. Ambassador to Canada
, CEO, Oracle Corporation
, Chairman & CEO, General Electric
, Managing Member, Samuel Capital Management, LLC
, Chairman & CEO, MacAndrews & Forbes Incorporated
, Chairman, Iron Dome Tribute
, Steinhardt Management
, CEO, InterTech Group
, Managing Director, Berkshire Partners
, CEO, Chilton Investment Company
, Partner, Rubin and Rudman LLP
, Chairman, The Interface Group
, Investment Banker, Jefferies & Co.
, CEO, Flaum Management Company, Inc.
, Chairman, Arxis Capital Investments
, Operating Executive, The Carlyle Group
, Senior Vice President, A.D.S Ventures
, M.D., Massachusetts General Hospital
, Real Estate Executive
, Managing Partner, Sky Boat Gaming
, Attorney
, Surgeon, Floyd Medical Associates
, President & CEO, Hobart Ventures
, Chairman, Johnson Development
, CEO, Alice Manufacturing Company
, Board Director, Pioneer Natural Resources Co.
 M.D., Cabarrus Family Medicine
, former U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania
, Partner, Sofer Steiner and Associates
, President, Stern & Stern Commercial Developers
, former Chairman, The Timberland Company
, CEO, Southland Capital Partners
, Business Consultant
, Partner, Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough
, Harrison, White, Smith & Coggins
, Co-Founder, Falcon Partner
, Frank Family Vineyards
, President, Simms Commercial Development