 — Chris Wilson, Director of Research and Analytics for Cruz for President and CEO of WPA Opinion Research, prepared the following 
 on the latest round of national and early state polls showing Senator Cruz firmly in the top tier of candidates only three weeks after announcing his candidacy and with several more announced candidates in the race.
The full text of the memo is below and 
.
The latest round of national and early state polls show Senator Cruz firmly in the top tier of candidates only three weeks after announcing his candidacy and with several more announced candidates in the race.
This polling demonstrates clearly that Republican primary voters are finding the Senator's messages more compelling than those of other candidates who are attempting to play in the same "brackets."
The increase in support that we saw in national polling of Republicans after Senator Cruz's announcement has been sustained and is reflected in multiple recent national polls.

The PPP study released this week reveals that Cruz made a considerable move into second place in New Hampshire.
Senator Cruz has also done an excellent job of building a positive image in the state as he is now one of only three current or potential candidates who has a majority of likely Republican Primary voters holding a favorable impression of him according to the PPP study.

The Winthrop study released this week reveals that Cruz is a top contender in South Carolina.

The Monmouth University Poll was conducted by telephone from March 30th-April 2nd with a sample of 355 registered voters who identify themselves as Republicans or lean toward the Republican Party. This voter sample has a margin of error of +5.2%.

The Fox News Poll was conducted under the joint direction of Anderson Robbins Research (D) and Shaw & Company Research (R). The poll was conducted via live telephone interviewers March 29th-31st among a random national sample of 379 Republican primary voters. Results based on the full sample have a margin of sampling error of +5.5%.

The Post-ABC poll was conducted March 26th-29th among a random national sample of 444 Republicans and GOP leaning independent interviewed by telephone. The margin of error is ±5.5%.

PPP conducted a survey of 358 Republican primary voters in New Hampshire from April 9th-13th with a margin of error of ±5.2%. These surveys were conducted through automated telephone interviews and interviews over the internet to voters who don't have landline phones.

This survey of 500 likely Republican primary voters was conducted from March 21st-24th. The margin of error for this survey is ±4.4%. This survey was conducted through live telephone interviews on landline (65%) and cell phones (35%).