 — A 
 from Chris Wilson, Director of Research and Analytics for Cruz for President and CEO of WPA Opinion Research, shows Senator Ted Cruz has seen a strong surge in support since his announcement on March 23rd. Both national numbers and numbers in key states are up as voters engage and seriously assess a Cruz candidacy.
The full text of the memo is below and 
As we expected, Ted Cruz has seen a surge in support since his announcement on March 23rd. Both national numbers and numbers in key states are up as voters engage and seriously assess a Cruz candidacy.

Senator Ted Cruz's announcement has resulted in very positive movement among Republican primary voters. These are the only surveys released since Senator Cruz announced and are strong examples of the overall growth in support.



The Post-ABC poll was conducted March 26th-29th among a random national sample of 444 Republicans and GOP leaning independent interviewed by telephone. The margin of error is ±5.5%.

PPP surveyed 316 Republican primary voters from February 20th-22nd. The margin of error for the survey is ±5.5%. PPP also surveyed 443 Republican primary voters from March 26th-31st. The margin of error for the survey is ±4.7%. These surveys were conducted through automated telephone interviews and interviews over the internet to voters who don't have landline phones.

This poll was conducted by telephone March 21st-24th among 240 Republicans nationwide. Data collection was conducted on behalf of CBS News by SSRS of Media, PA. Phone numbers were dialed from samples of both standard land-line and cell phones and interviews were conducted in English and Spanish. The margin of error for the survey is ±6%.

Gravis Marketing, a nonpartisan research firm, conducted a random sample telephone survey of 438 Republican Primary voters in Nevada from February 21st-22nd and a random survey of 443 Republican Primary voters in Nevada on March 27th. These polls have a margin of error of ±5%. Gravis Marketing also conducted a random sample telephone survey of 792 registered Republican voters in South Carolina from February 24th-25th and a random sample telephone survey of 899 registered Republican voters from March 26th-27th. These polls have a margin of error of ±3%. The polls were weighted by anticipated voting demographics.