Since the diagnosis of the first Ebola patient in the United States, we have achieved tremendous progress across all elements of the Administration's whole-of-government response. In an update provided to President Obama today, White House Ebola Response Coordinator Ron Klain reported that America is far more prepared to cope with Ebola domestically, and much farther along in our efforts to squelch the virus at the source than we were just two months ago, thanks to the work of more than a dozen federal agencies involved in the Ebola response.

Specifically, the progress we have achieved domestically in the past two months includes:

During a similar timeframe, we have also made marked strides in our overseas response by:

Virtually every initiative underway requires immediate, additional funding to be continued or advanced. The President's Emergency Funding Request of $6.2 billion, now pending before Congress, would provide critical resources to build out our domestic Ebola Treatment Centers and Assessment Hospitals; take the next steps on Ebola vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics; fund our vital Ebola response in West Africa; and strengthen Global Health Security to prevent, detect, and rapidly respond to the spread of Ebola in any other vulnerable countries and to combat similar infectious disease threats.

The following Fact Sheets provide additional details on this comprehensive response and the progress it has achieved in recent weeks.





We have prioritized domestic preparedness and hospital readiness since the diagnosis of the first Ebola patient in Dallas so that additional cases can be diagnosed and treated promptly, effectively, and safely. Whereas we previously had no formal guidelines in place to judge a hospital's preparedness vis-à-vis Ebola, we have since September devised and implemented a series of tools to assess and improve facility readiness, allowing us to have confidence in our nationwide ability to respond to additional cases at home.

State and local public health officials, with technical assistance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and in collaboration with hospital officials, have identified substantially increased capacity to treat Ebola patients. Prior to October, there were three facilities in the United States recognized for their biocontainment capability for treating Ebola and other infectious diseases: Emory University Hospital, University of Nebraska Medical Center, and the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center. 
. 
.



We have in the same period conducted extensive outreach to the health care community, including hospitals, clinicians, healthcare unions, and medical and nursing provider associations, focusing on training and keeping health care workers safe and preparing frontline facilities to diagnose and isolate potential Ebola patients. In recent weeks, HHS and CDC have hosted over 100 conference calls, more than 30 webinars, and multiple live training events on infection control principles and appropriate use of PPE.

 In the past 70 days, CDC has also provided additional resources and guidance to assist with hospital readiness.

 We have worked closely with state and local authorities, as well as with domestic and global manufacturers, to ensure an effective Ebola PPE supply chain. Following the release of the updated PPE guidance by CDC in late October, ASPR and CDC began a dedicated effort to assemble PPE kits to deploy to hospitals to supplement other supply mechanisms. As of late last month, CDC had sufficient PPE to supply 50 days of Ebola patient care in its Strategic National Stockpile (SNS).



Just as we have expanded the network of hospitals capable of responding to an Ebola patient, CDC's Laboratory Response Network (LRN) has grown the network of laboratories able to test a potential Ebola specimen. In order to qualify as an LRN Ebola testing lab, the facility must have the appropriate and functioning biosafety level 3 laboratory, the necessary test reagents, and needed PPE to perform the assay safely. A testing lab demonstrates competency by successful completion of a quality assurance panel. Upon completion and evaluation of the panel, the laboratory is considered approved to test for Ebola using the DOD assay.



Just as we have enhanced our domestic capacity to diagnose and treat Ebola patients effectively and safely, we also have made strides in establishing additional protocols to minimize the risk of imported Ebola cases. The approach we have developed is multilayered and involves overlapping safeguards to mitigate risk.

We have worked with our international partners to increase capacity to identify travelers who may be experiencing symptoms of Ebola or diseases, prevent them from traveling, and refer them for appropriate care as necessary.

Pursuant to our layered screening approach, health officials now actively monitor recently-arrived travelers for 21 days since exposure, so that public health officials can rapidly identify a potential case, respond with the medical support the patient needs, and prevent transmission to others in the community.

 While there have been no cases of Ebola in the maritime sector, the U.S. Government, in coordination with state governments and industry, has developed comprehensive procedures for tracking, screening, prevention, and response to the spread of Ebola via ships calling on the United States.



Over the longer-term, vaccines and therapeutics will be a key tool in our arsenal, and we have significantly ramped up development and clinical trials of vaccine and drug candidates. While no therapeutics or vaccines have yet been certified to be safe and effective for treating or preventing Ebola, HHS, led by efforts at NIH, has made progress in recent weeks and is expediting the human clinical trials of several Ebola vaccine and therapeutic candidates.

We are supporting the development of five Ebola vaccine candidates in various stages of development. Two vaccine candidates—cAd3 and rVSV—have been in Phase 1 human clinical trials; three others are still a few months away from the start of trials.

NIH, DOD, and HHS' Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) are supporting production of tens of thousands of doses of these vaccines on a pilot scale for planned trials. BARDA with FDA assistance is supporting the rapid scale-up and optimization of vaccine manufacturing for these vaccine candidates to ensure that the capacity exists to produce millions of vaccine doses in a timely way if mass vaccination campaigns are able to occur in 2015 in Africa.

In addition to these vaccine candidates, there are three other candidates supported during early stage development by NIH and DOD that are a few months away from the start of Phase 1 clinical trials.

Additionally, the U.S. Government is supporting the development of several investigational candidate therapeutics to treat patients infected with the disease. Some have already been employed in patients in the United States and Africa.



Recognizing that the only way to eradicate the threat of Ebola in America is to defeat it on the frontlines, we have significantly ramped up efforts to fight the virus in West Africa since the President announced an international scale-up at the CDC in mid-September. Our international response is civilian-led with leadership from USAID and CDC and important roles from HHS, the State Department, and other agencies, totaling more than 200 civilian responders on the ground. Complementing this civilian cadre is the U.S. military, which since mid-September has brought to bear its unique capabilities and scale; nearly 3,000 service members are now in West Africa, augmenting what was a small force of several hundred less than three months ago. The Department in October reprogrammed $750 million in funding for this deployment and the broader response.

In Liberia, the country with the highest number of Ebola-related deaths, we have achieved progress against a range of activities in recent weeks working together with the Government of Liberia and partners on the ground.

 In the past month alone, the U.S. military has completed three ETUs in Liberia, and several more are slated to come online in December. The U.S. military will construct a total of 10 ETUs and USAID-funded partners built an additional four; all are slated to be complete within the next several weeks. The United States is funding medical teams and non-clinical support operations and ensuring essential PPE supply and in-kind commodity support at a total of 20 ETUs. As a result of this support, a total of 24 ETUs providing isolation and care facilities throughout Liberia are expected to be operational by the end of January.

. As we have brought additional infrastructure online in recent weeks, we also have sought to ensure sufficient personnel are available to staff these facilities and provide the highest quality care to patients. We are supporting training for health care workers and foreign medical teams in the United States and in Liberia. Prior to their deployment, more than 200 health care workers have been trained in the United States. As of November, we have the capacity to train 200 health care workers per week in Monrovia alone.

 To encourage experienced health care workers from around the globe to join in this effort and help ensure they can get the care they need should they become ill, we now have in place an advanced Ebola treatment facility in Monrovia, which the U.S. military constructed. More than 70 members of HHS' U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps are now treating health care workers in this facility, the Monrovia Medical Unit (MMU), which opened its doors in early November. The MMU last month achieved a milestone by releasing its first two patients, both of whom are now Ebola-free.

 We have provided technical support to establish a fully functioning national Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and Incident Management System in Liberia, which came online in October. We are now working to support county-level EOCs throughout Liberia.

 Since September, we have met our target of supporting 65 active safe burial teams across all 15 counties in Liberia—greater than 90 percent of responses to dead body alerts occur within 24 hours. In early September, only 12 U.S.-supported burial teams were operational.

 We are facilitating large-scale infection control in Liberia, including procuring and airlifting 130,000 PPE sets to Liberia and trainings for health care workers in infection control outside established Ebola facilities.

 Through our partners, more than 1.5 million Liberians receive daily radio Ebola messages, and nearly 100,000 households have been directly reached by mobilization teams to date. This comprehensive social mobilization coverage has resulted in significant behavior change that has played a large role in bending the curve.

. The decline in infection rates in Liberia witnessed in recent weeks confirms that we have the right strategy in place. With these signs of progress, however, we must not relent in executing this strategy. We know that small outbreaks can quickly flare up and wipe away months of progress. We are committed to expanding the pace, ingenuity, and scale of our response in Liberia, and across the region, to stem this deadly epidemic and to meet the longer-term recovery and prevention needs in West Africa. As such, we have supported the same approaches in Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Mali. The Senegal-based Intermediate Staging Base, which DOD established in September, has helped to facilitate an approach that reaches beyond Liberia.



The United States has led the international effort to confront Ebola, but, as the President has said, we cannot take on this challenge alone. U.S. leadership has successfully galvanized others to take part. Since mid-September, when President Obama called on the world to act, other nations, private sector stakeholders, international organizations, and multilateral development banks have come together to pledge more than $2 billion to end the epidemic at its source in West Africa. Other senior U.S. officials—including the National Security Advisor, Secretary of State, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Ebola Response Coordinator, among others—have since continued to dialogue with their counterparts to enhance and optimize the international response. Fifteen countries have committed more than $800 million in financial and in-kind assistance following engagement by senior Administration officials.

Among the contributions announced since mid-September:
