Alfred H. Bennett, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Kenneth M. Hoyt, retired.
Armando Omar Bonilla, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Edward J. Damich, term expired.
Jeanne E. Davidson, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of International Trade, vice Donald C. Pogue, retired.
Ann Donnelly, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Sandra L. Townes, retiring.
Dale A. Drozd, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Anthony W. Ishii, retired.
Nancy B. Firestone, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment)
Michael Greco, of New York, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of four years, vice Joseph R. Guccione, term expired.
Thomas L. Halkowski, of Pennsylvania, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Lynn Jeanne Bush, term expired.
LaShann Moutique DeArcy Hall, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Nicholas G. Garaufis, retired.
George C. Hanks, Jr., of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Nancy Friedman Atlas, retired.
Roseann A. Ketchmark, of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Gary A. Fenner, retiring.
Patricia M. McCarthy, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Emily Clark Hewitt, retired.
Travis Randall McDonough, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Curtis L. Collier, retired.
Ronald Lee Miller, of Kansas, to be United States Marshal for the District of Kansas for the term of four years, vice Walter Robert Bradley, retired.
Jose Rolando Olvera, Jr., of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas, vice Hilda G. Tagle, retired.
Jill N. Parrish, of Utah, to be United States District Judge for the District of Utah, vice Dee V. Benson, retired.
Luis Felipe Restrepo, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Anthony J. Scirica, retired.
Jeri Kaylene Somers, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice George W. Miller, retired.
Kara Farnandez Stoll, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Randall R. Rader, retired.