 it appears that certain public lands, part of which are within the Tongass National Forest, adjacent to the Glacier Bay National Monument, in Alaska, have situated thereon glaciers and geologic features of scientific interest; and.
 a portion of the aforesaid public lands contiguous to the said monument are necessary for the proper care, management, and protection of the objects of scientific interest situated on the lands included within the said monument; and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve all of the aforesaid public lands as a part of the said monument:
 President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the act of June 4, 1897, 30 Stat. 11, 34, 36 (U.S.C. title 16, sec. 473), and the act of June 8, 1906, c. 3060, 34 Stat. 225 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 431), do proclaim that all of the following-described lands which lie within the Tongass National Forest, in Alaska, are excluded therefrom, and that, subject to valid existing rights, all the following-described lands in Alaska are hereby added to and made a part of the said Glacier Bay National Monument:
Beginning at the summit of Mount Fairweather, on the International Boundary line between Alaska and British Columbia; thence southeasterly along present southern boundary of Glacier Bay National Monument to the point of the divide between the waters of Glacier Bay and Lynn Canal where said divide is forked by the headwaters of Excursion Inlet; thence easterly and southeasterly along the divide between the waters of Excursion Inlet and Lynn Canal to a point in approximate latitude 58°27' N., longitude 135°18' W., where said divide meets a subsidiary divide between streams flowing into Excursion Inlet; thence westerly and northwesterly along said subsidiary divide to the east shore of Excursion Inlet; thence due west to the center of the principal channel of Excursion Inlet; thence southerly along the center of the principal channel of Excursion Inlet to its Junction with the Icy Passage; thence westerly and southwesterly along the center of Icy Passage, North Passage, North Indian Pass, and Cross Sound to the Pacific Ocean; thence northwesterly following the general contour of the coast at a distance of 3 nautical miles therefrom to a point due west of the mouth of Seaotter Creek; thence due east to the north bank of Seaotter Creek and easterly along the north bank of Seaotter Creek to Its headwaters; thence in a straight line to the summit of Mount Fairweather, the place of beginning. Containing approximately 904,960 acres.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of the monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916, 39 Stat. 535 (U.S.C., title 16, secs. 1 and 2), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof.
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 18" day of April in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-third.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL