SIMI VALLEY – According to conservative press and pundits on Twitter, Governor Jindal came out on top at the debate. According to liberals, it was Lindsey Graham.
Here's some coverage:
Bobby Jindal took on the GOP 
 and won the debate. 
— Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) 
An hour later I'm still getting emails from people suddenly rooting for 
— Erick Erickson (@EWErickson) 
Winners & Losers: 1. Jindal, 2. Graham, 3. Santorum, 4. the other guy 
— toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) 
Jindal blasts DC: "Honest socialists on the left and lying conservatives on the right." AMEN! AMEN! AMEN!!! 
— toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) 
Likeliest breakout is Jindal.
— Ben Domenech (@bdomenech) 
Jindal hitting Congressional Republicans. He asks, what's the point of having the majority? Good tactical play. 
— Guy Benson (@guypbenson) 
Winner: 
 did a lot to shake off the boring reputation, and crystallized his attack dog makeover at 
— Christopher Bedford (@CBedfordDC) 
Jindal is the only candidate to come out of this expansion draft and make it to the bigs. He's tonight's Fiorina so far. 
— Michael Berry (@MichaelBerrySho) 
That was Jindal at his strongest point so far. 
— Kerry Picket (@KerryPicket) 
Jindal was on fire tonight. 
— Matt Mackowiak (@MattMackowiak) 
Jindal on the problem with DC elites is great moment. Will resonate w primary electorate. 
— Bruce Haynes (@BrucePurple) 
 's got some fight
— Glenn Thrush (@GlennThrush) 
JIndal slamming the GOP Congress was his best moment.
— John Nolte (@NolteNC) 
for mentioning the targeting of Christians, thank you Bobby Jindal 
— Kathryn Jean Lopez (@kathrynlopez) 
Heckuva defense of religious liberty by Jindal. "Can we get a list of jobs Christians can't have?"
— Amanda Carpenter (@amandacarpenter) 
 is winning this debate — he's so good at "getting to the bottom line" — he's very tough on all his opponents.
— Lara M Brown (@LaraMBrownPhD) 
Jindal closing with blistering attack on DC GOP, saying he's angrier with them than with Obama. 
— Guy Benson (@guypbenson) 
Jindal comes out swinging. 
— toddstarnes (@toddstarnes) 
And here's some stories: