U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced a second round of members to his New Hampshire Leadership Team in advance of his return to the Granite State this Sunday and Monday. This group of sixty-six courageous conservatives joins forty-one other leaders who endorsed Cruz earlier in the spring, including New Hampshire co-chairs, former Speaker Bill O'Brien, former Sen. Bob Smith, and Executive Councilor David Wheeler. Now totaling 107, Sen. Cruz's leadership team consists of conservative activists, former and current elected officials, and liberty and faith based leaders across all ten counties in the Granite State.

Sen. Groen represented District 6 in the State Senate from 2010-2012 and was a champion for conservative causes while in Concord. He also owns a construction business with his brother, Rep. Warren Groen.

In his fourth term representing Ward 3 in Rochester, Rep. Groen has been a leader in shrinking government, and protecting life and constitutional liberties.

First term State Rep. Christie has been a strong champion of conservative causes in the State Legislature.

Rep. Cook is in his first term in Concord and also a pastor.  He will chair Senator Cruz's faith-based coalition in the Granite State.

Rep. Comtois is in his 3rd term in the House and represents Belknap-7.  The Comtoises supported Ron Paul in 2012 and are the organizers of Micro-Farmers of New Hampshire.

First term Rep. Kuch of Bow served seven years in the Navy Reserve.

Rep. Koloziej is in his 4th term representing Rockingham-07 and served in the Marine Corps from 1963-1967.

Former State Rep. Bick is also a veteran of the U.S. Navy.

Carol represented Stafford-3 from 2009-2013 which included Barrington, Farmington Middleton, Milton, New Durham and Strafford. Lucian also served in Strafford-3 from 2011-2013. The Vitas supported Ron Paul in 2012.

Rep. Worsman represented Belknap-2 from 2010-2014.

Rep. Arrocnero served one term in the Legislature and is a liberty activist in Belknap County.

Pastor of Village Chapel Baptist Church in Mont Vernon.

Pastor of Church of the Intersection In Merrimack.

Pastor of Riverside Christian Church in Merrimack.

Pastor of World Life Christian Church in Concord and the Regional Director of Christians for Israel.

The Kindlers are longtime Party activists in Rockingham County.

Former President of Nashua Federation of Republican Women.

Conservative activists and Nashua Town Chairs.

Veteran and conservative activist.

Former Chester Selectwoman.

Hanover Town Chair and conservative activist.

Former Meredith Selectwoman and Belknap County Chair.

Second Amendment activist and Plaistow Town Chair.

Townsend is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force, conservative activist, and former candidate for office.

Rockingham area liberty activist.

Goodwin is a a conservative activist and former winner of the Civic Recognition Award, given to those who improve and help the well-being of their community.

Conservative activist and Treasurer of the Nashua Federation of Republican Women.

U.S. Army veteran.

Cheshire County activist and Fitzwilliam Town Chair.

Faith-based activist.

Eric is a neuroradiologist and Johanne is a dentist. Both are were recently driven to politics because of Obamacare.

Businessman and conservative activist.

Tea-Party activist.

Businessman and conservative activist.

Both conservative activists, Loretta and Jeff traveled to Texas in 2012 to volunteer on Senator Cruz's 2012 campaign for U.S. Senate.

Conservative activist.

Conservative activist.

Conservative activist and UNH Professor.

First-time campaign activist.

Conservative activists.

Conservative activist.

Conservative activist and state organizer of NH4Israel.

Conservative activist.

Conservative activist.

Small business owners and conservative activists.

Conservative activist and Brookline Town Chair.

The Blomstedts are long-time conservative activists dating backing to serving as Pat Buchanan's Carroll County Chairs.

First-time campaign activist.

Started the first Ted Cruz for New Hampshire Facebook page.

Conservative activist and Gilford Town Chair.

Long-time conservative activist in Grafton County.

Conservative activists.

2nd Amendment and liberty activist

Faith-based activist.

Conservative activist and Sullivan County organizer.