Winner of the 2012 Iowa Republican Caucus and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) will return to Iowa for a three-day campaign swing that will culminate with the completion of his second "Full Grassley" in Rock Rapids, Iowa.
The "Full Grassley" is named in honor of Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA) who commits to visit each of Iowa's 99 counties each year. Monday will mark Senator Santorum's second "Full Grassley." Senator Santorum also visited each of Iowa's 99 counties in 2011.
Senator Santorum's public schedule is below. Additional advisories will be issued should events be added or his schedule changed.
Senator Santorum will hold an ice cream meet-and-greet at the Shelter on the Square in Mount Ary, IA.

Shelter on the town square

Mount Ary, IA
Senator Santorum will meet-and-greet diners at the Junction Café in Bedford, IA.

Junction Café

804 Pollock Boulevard

Bedford, IA
Senator Santorum will hold a "politics and pie" town hall meeting in Creston, IA.

Creston Family Restaurant

802 West Taylor Street

Creston, IA
Senator Santorum will hold a coffee and conversation town hall meeting in Albia, IA.

Highway Restaurant

200 Highway 34 East

Albia, IA
Senator Santorum will tour and visit with employees at C&C Machining in Centerville, IA.

C&C Machining

22233 230th Avenue

Centerville, IA
Senator Santorum will hold an economic roundtable with the Newton Development Corporation in Newton, IA.

Newton Development Corporation

600 North Second Avenue

Newton, IA
Senator Santorum will appear live in-studio with Simon Conway on WHO Radio in Des Moines, IA.
Senator Santorum will address the Skinner-Hockenberg Presidential Series of the Greater Des Moines Jewish Federation and Iowans Supporting Israel in Waukee, IA.

Bucksbaum Auditorium

Caspe Terrace

33158 Ute Avenue

Waukee, IA
Senator Santorum will hold a town hall meeting in Corning, IA.

Corning Opera House

800 Davis Avenue

Corning, IA
Senator Santorum will appear on the Jan Mickelson Radio Show on WHO Radio in Des Moines, IA.
Senator Santorum will tour and visit with employees at DK Plastics in Archer, IA.

DK Plastics

5238 379th Street

Archer, IA
Senator Santorum will complete his second "Full Grassley" tour of all 99 Iowa counties with a celebration in Rock Rapids, IA.

Island Park

Rock Rapids, IA
Senator Santorum will address the Iowa FAMiLY Leader NW Summit in Sioux Center, IA.

Dordt College

498 4th Avenue NE

Sioux Center, IA