Today I'm going to put my own political mission aside and talk about something more important than myself, more important than any single candidate or person.
Our country is slipping away right before our very eyes. We are descending down the path to socialism, dependence on government is becoming the new American Dream, we are unfazed by the selling of body parts as commodities, and we are pathetically weak in international affairs. America is slipping away, right in front of us in real time.
And yet this is a moment of great opportunity for America. This is a time when we can make dramatic changes, we can embrace conservative ideals, and we can literally turn our country around.
I believe the country is ready for that. You can see it in people's eyes, you can read it in the polls, America is ready for a politically incorrect conservative revolution.
The liberalism and incompetence of the Obama Administration have pushed us to the edge, to the point where you can literally see the idea of America slipping away – and people are dreading it, and they are ready to stop that from happening.
The American people have a massive appetite for a rebirth, a massive appetite for making America Great again.
So that is the context and the reason for what I'm going to say next.
I laughed out loud when he read Lindsey Graham's cell number on live TV.
I got a kick out of him giving kids helicopter rides at the Iowa state fair
And I was amused when he said the people at Jeb's townhall were sleeping.
The Donald Trump Act is great, and the idea of Donald Trump is great — BUT the reality of Donald Trump is absurd, he's a non-serious carnival act.
It's silly to argue policy with this guy, he's doesn't know anything about it, he has no idea what he is talking about, he makes it all up on the fly. According to him his health care plan will be "fabulous" and his tax plan will be "really, really terrific." He's shallow, no substance.
The real danger is that, ironically, Donald Trump could destroy America's chance to be Great Again.
As conservatives, we have a golden opportunity in front of us. The Democrats have terribly screwed things up, and are basically giving us the next election.
If we blow this opportunity – we may never get it again, the stakes are incredibly high.