Jindal on Trump: "I like the Donald Trump act and show. It's a lot of fun. It's entertainment." 
— Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) 
this is 
's real vulnerability: the boastful "strongman" is pathetically weak. good for 
 
— Alex Castellanos (@alexcast) 
Jindal calls Trump an "egomaniac"
— Igor Bobic (@igorbobic) 
Pretty good shot from Jindal: "Donald Trump's never read the Bible. The reason we know he's never read the Bible, he's not in the Bible."
— Rich Lowry (@RichLowry) 
Jindal burn on Trump: "You know why he hasn't read the Bible? Because he's not in it."
— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) 
good 
 strategy: beat opponent w/ own bat. now when 
 says "i'm rich" we hear, "I'm weak" 
— Alex Castellanos (@alexcast) 
Jindal - "I'm for making America great again ... Donald Trump's for making Donald Trump great."
— Alexis Levinson (@alexis_levinson) 
Key line from Jindal speech: "The reality of Donald Trump is absurd, he's a non-serious carnival act."
— Josh Kraushaar (@HotlineJosh) 
Jindal: Trump is dangerous, narcissistic 
— Jake Tapper (@jaketapper) 
Bobby Jindal at NPC event says Donald Trump is "shallow," an "egomaniac" and a "carnival act" 
— Emma Roller (@emmaroller) 
Wow. Bobby Jindal just called Donald Trump is a "narcissist" and "egomaniac." Then calls him a "carnival act" and "shallow." 
— Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) 
Jindal on Trump's insecurity: "We know that only a very weak and small person needs to constantly tell us how strong and powerful he is."
— McKay Coppins (@mckaycoppins) 
Top Bobby Jindal descriptors for Donald Trump this morning, ranked: 1. "unstable" 2. a "narcissistic egomaniac" 3. a "carnival act"
— Rebecca Sinderbrand (@sinderbrand) 
Jindal: "Donald Trump's campaign is not about making America Great Again, it is about making Donald Trump Great."
— jimgeraghty (@jimgeraghty) 
"We've all met people like Trump, & we know that only a very weak & small person needs to constantly tell us how strong & powerful he is."
— jimgeraghty (@jimgeraghty) 
What Jindal is calling Trump today: "egomaniacal madman" "power-hungry shark" "insecure" "full of foolishness" "unserious" "unstable"
— Ryan Struyk (@ryanstruyk) 
In speech, 
 calls Trump insecure, weak and dangerous 
— Jesse Byrnes (@jessebyrnes) 
BEST LINE 
— Leonardo Alcivar (@alcivar) 
Words Jindal has to describe Trump today: "not serious" "carnival act" "shallow" "narcissist" "egomaniac" "insecure" "weak" "madman"
— Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) 