After weathering a barrage of Democrat and big-government special interest protests over the years, Governor Scott Walker is no stranger to attacks. This time, it's Hillary Clinton leading the attack against Governor Walker for no other reason than he poses the greatest threat to the liberal agenda.
Here are five of the most recent attacks from Hillary Clinton that show how scared she is of Scott Walker's reforms.
After decades of huge tuition hikes, Governor Walker froze tuition in the University of Wisconsin System for a record 4 years running, and delivered historic levels of need-based financial aid. Those are real steps to making college more affordable for families.
One of Planned Parenthood's dirty secrets was revealed in a series of disturbing videos: their business sells the parts of the babies they abort. Like most Americans, Governor Walker does not want our tax dollars to be used to finance the buying and selling of human beings and he's proud to have cut off state funding for these callous acts.
Doctors believe that unborn babies can feel pain at 20 weeks, and Governor Walker signed legislation to protect those babies, which includes provisions to protect the life of the mother.
Thanks to Governor Walker, workers in Wisconsin can now choose for themselves whether they want to belong to a union, instead of being forced to join and pay dues. His reforms also allow public sector workers to be paid on performance and promoted based on merit.
Voter ID legislation makes it easier to vote and harder to cheat in Wisconsin. College students may use their school-provided photo ID (which they need for every school function) or may get a free state ID. It can't get much easier or cheaper.
Despite the Democrats' best efforts - bussing in tens of thousands to protest in the state capital and spending millions upon millions - Scott Walker is still standing and he's won three elections in four years.
How did he do it? Committed supporters just like you, standing up and joining Scott in his principled fight against the big-government special interests. Hillary Clinton is leading the charge against Walker and we're going to need all the help we can get. 
 if you're committed to standing with Walker.