Hillary Clinton is 
, going after one of her chief Republican rivals with everything she can. This time the attacks came over the cost of education - which is ironic because not only has Governor Walker frozen tuition rates in the UW system but up until a few months ago, Hillary was charging universities $225,000 to speak on campus. Knowing who the true opponent in the race is, Walker called Clinton out on the hypocrisy.

  .
 I've frozen in-state tuition rates for four years, while you charged colleges $225K+ just to show up. -SW
— Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) 

  This attack coming from someone who charged universities $225,000 to give speeches. 
 is 
 
— Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) 
Governor Walker is out there every week talking about his stance on the issues and his record of reforms. But sometimes that doesn't leave any room to get to know the candidate (what are his interests, hobbies, favorite childhood memories, etc.) In order to help you get to know Governor Walker a little better we launched "Beyond the Podium," a video blog of answers to common questions in 15 seconds or less. Check out the first entry below where he responds to why he decided to get into public service.
A video posted by Scott Walker (@scottwalker) on
After the Cleveland debate last Thursday, Governor Walker made his way down through Georgia into South Carolina for some BBQ, homestyle cooking, a Sunday morning service and a stop in front of a giant peach in Gaffney, SC.

  My 1st job was washing dishes. Saying hi to the crew working hard at Wade's in Spartanburg, SC. -SW 
— Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) 

  Great to be in Spartanburg. Stopped in at Wade's to mingle with folks after church. - SW 
 
— Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) 

  Got a photo next to the peach outside FATZ cafe. You might recognize it from House of Cards Season 1. - SW 
— Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) 
While Governor Scott Walker was in Atlanta, GA for the 2015 RedState Gathering, he stopped by the Facebook tent to take the 60 Second Challenge. The rules are pretty simple: answer as many questions as you can in 60 seconds. Here's how it went.

      This weekend I took Facebook's 60 second challenge at #RSG15. Watch to see how many questions I can answer in 60 seconds.
Posted by 
 on 