 the Secretary of Agriculture, pursuant to section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, approved July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), as amended by the act of June 20, 1936, 49 Stat. 1555, has adopted and submitted to me regulations amending certain of the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2245 of July 30. 1937, which he has determined to be suitable amendments of such regulations permitting and governing hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation and importation of migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof, included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals concluded February 7, 1936, which amendatory regulations are as follows:
AMENDMENTS OF MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE
Pursuant to the authority and direction contained in section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), as amended by the Act of June 20, 1936 (49 Stat. 1555), I, H.A. Wallace Secretary of Agriculture, having due regard to the zones of temperature and to the distribution, abundance, economic value, breeding habits and times and lines of migratory flight of migratory birds included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds, concluded August sixteenth, nineteen hundred and sixteen, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals concluded February seventh, nineteen hundred and thirty-six, have determined when, to what extent, and by what means it is compatible with the terms of said Conventions and Act to allow hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation and importation of such birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, and, in accordance with such determinations, do hereby adopt the following amendments of the Regulations relating to migratory birds and certain game mammals, approved and proclaimed July 30, 1937 (50 Stat. 1844), as suitable amendments of said regulations, permitting and governing hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation and importation of said migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof:
The second paragraph of Regulation 3, "Means by Which Migratory Game Birds May be Taken", is amended by striking out the period at the end thereof and adding the words "and coot."
Regulation 4, "Open Seasons on and Possession of Certain Migratory Game Birds", is amended to read as follows:
Waterfowl (except snow geese and brant in Florida and all States north thereof bordering on the Atlantic Ocean, Ross's goose, wood duck, and swans), and coot, may be taken each day from 7 a. m. to 4 p. m., and rails and gallinules (other than coot), Wilson's snipe or jacksnipe, woodcock, mourning doves, white-winged doves, and band-tailed pigeons from 7 a. m., to sunset, each day during the open seasons prescribed therefor in this regulation, and they may be taken by the means and in the numbers permitted by regulations 3 and 5 of these regulations, respectively, and when so taken may be possessed in the numbers permitted by regulation 5 any day in any State or Territory, or in the District of Columbia during the period constituting the open season where taken and for an additional period of 10 days next succeeding said open season, but no such bird shall be possessed in a State or Territory, or in the District of Columbia at a time when such State, Territory, or District prohibits the possession thereof. Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit the taking of migratory birds on any reservation or sanctuary established under the Migratory Bird Conservation Act of February 18, 1929 (45 Stat. 1222), nor on any area of the United States set aside under any other law, proclamation, or Executive order for use as a bird, game, or other wildlife reservation, breeding grounds, or refuge except insofar as may be permitted by the Secretary of Agriculture under existing law, nor on any area adjacent to any such refuge when such area is designated as a closed area under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.
Waterfowl, Wilson's snipe or jack-snipe, and coot.—The open seasons for waterfowl (except snow geese and brant in Florida and all States north thereof bordering on the Atlantic Ocean, Ross's goose, wood duck, and swans), Wilson's snipe or jacksnipe, and coot, in the several States and Alaska, shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
In Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota, Vermont, and Wisconsin, October 1 to November 14.
In California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, including Long Island, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Utah, Washington, West Virginia, and Wyoming, October 15 to November 28.
In Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia, November 15 to December 29.
In Alaska north of the summit of the Alaska Range and Kuskokwim-Bristol Bay Divide, September 1 to October 15; south of the Alaska Range and Kuskokwim-Bristol Bay Divide and east of the Naknek River and Lake and Katmai National Monument to the 141st Meridian, September 16 to October 30; southeastern Alaska from the 141st Meridian south to Dixon Entrance, October 1 to November 14; and south and west of Naknek River and Lake and Katmai National Monument to the tip of the Alaskan Peninsula, including all adjacent islands in the Public Domain and Kodiak Island, November 1 to December 15; 
 scoters, locally known as sea coots, may be taken in open coastal waters only, beyond outer harbor lines, in Maine and New Hampshire from September 15 to September 30, and in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island, from September 15 to October 14, and thereafter from land or water during the open seasons for other waterfowl in said States.
Rails and gallinules (except coot).— The open season for rails and gallinules (except coot), shall be from September 1 to November 30, both dates inclusive, except as follows:
Alabama, November 20 to January 31.
Louisiana, November 1 to January 31.
New York including Long Island, October 15 to November 28.
Washington, and Massachusetts, October 1 to November 30.
Wisconsin, October 1 to November 14.
District of Columbia, no open season.
Woodcock.—The open seasons for woodcock shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
That portion of New York lying north of the tracks of the main line of the New York Central Railroad extending from Buffalo to Albany and north of the tracks of the main line of the Boston and Albany Railroad extending from Albany to the Massachusetts State line, and in Michigan, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Vermont, October 1 to October 31.
That portion of New York lying south of the line above described and in Delaware, Indiana, Iowa, New Jersey, Ohio, and West Virginia, October 15 to November 14.
That portion of New York known as Long Island, November 1 to November 30.
Arkansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Oklahoma, and Virginia, November 15 to December 15.
Connecticut, and Rhode Island, October 21 to November 20.
Louisiana, January 1 to January 31.
Maine, October 10 to November 9.
Massachusetts, October 20 to November 19.
Missouri, November 10 to December 10.
Wisconsin, October 17 to October 31.
Mourning doves.—The open seasons for mourning doves shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Alabama, in the counties of Pickens, Tuscaloosa, Jefferson, Shelby, Talladega, Clay, Randolph, and all counties north thereof: Georgia, in the counties of Troup, Merriwether, Pike, Lamar, Monroe, Jones, Baldwin, Washington, Jefferson, Burke, and all counties north thereof; Mississippi, north of U.S. Highway 80; and South Carolina, in the counties of Aiken, Edgefield, McCormick, Greenwood, Abbeville, Anderson, Oconee, Pickens, Greenville, Laurens, Spartanburg, Cherokee, Union, Pairfield, Chester, and York, September 1 to September 30 and December 20 to January 31.
Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina, in the counties other than those aforesaid, and Mississippi south of U.S. Highway 80, November 20 to January 31.
Arizona, Arkansas, California, Idaho, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Tennessee, arid Virginia, September 1 to November 15.
Delaware, and Maryland, September 1 to September 30 and November 15 to December 31.
Florida (except in Dade, Broward, and Monroe Counties), November 20 to January 31.
That portion of Florida comprising Dade, Broward, and Monroe Counties, October 1 to November 15.
Illinois, September 1 to September 30.
Kentucky, September 1 to October 31.
Louisiana, October 15 to December 31.
North Carolina, September 1 to September 30 and December 20 to January 31.
Texas, in the counties of Yoakum, Terry, Lynn, Garza, Kent, Stonewall, Haskell, Throckmorton, Young, Jack,. Wise, Denton, Collin, and Hunt, and all counties north thereof, and in the counties of Parker, Tarrant, Dallas, Rockwall, Kaufman, Johnson, Hopkins, Delta, and Franklin, September 1 to October 31; in the remainder of the State, September 15 to November 15.
White-winged doves.—The open season for white-winged doves shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Arizona, August 1 to September 15.
Texas, in the counties of Yoakum, Terry, Lynn, Garza, Kent, Stonewall, Haskell, Throckmorton, Young, Jack, Wise, Denton, Collin, and Hunt, and all counties north thereof, and in the counties of Parker, Tarrant, Dallas, Rockwall, Kaufman, Johnson, Hopkins, Delta, and Franklin, September 1 to October 31; in the remainder of the State, September 15 to November 15.
Band-tailed pigeons.—The open seasons for band-tailed pigeons shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Arizona, and Oregon, October 16 to October 30.
California, December 1 to December 15.
New Mexico, October 1 to October 15.
Washington, September 16 to September 30.
Regulation 5, "Daily Bag and Possession Limits on Certain Migratory Game Birds", is amended to read as follows:
A person may take in any one day during the open seasons prescribed therefor in regulation 4 of these regulations not to exceed the following numbers of migratory game birds, which numbers shall include all birds taken by any other person who for hire accompanies or assists him in taking such birds; and when so taken these may be possessed in the numbers specified as follows:
Ducks (except wood duck).—Ten in the aggregate of all kinds, of which not more than 3 of any one, or more than 3 in the aggregate, may be of the following species—canvasback, redhead, bufflehead, and ruddy; and any person at any one time may possess not more than 20 ducks in the aggregate of all kinds, of which not more than 6 of any one, or more than 6 in the aggregate, may be of the following species—canvasback, redhead, bufflehead, and ruddy.
Geese and brant (except snow geese and brant in Florida and all States north thereof bordering on the Atlantic Ocean, and Ross's goose).—Five in the aggregate of all kinds, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 10 in the aggregate of all kinds.
Rails and gallinules (except sora and coot).—Fifteen in the aggregate of all kinds, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 15 in the aggregate of all kinds.
Sora.—Fifteen, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 15.
Coot.—Twenty-five, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 25.
Wilson's snipe or jacksnipe.—Fifteen, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 15.
Woodcock.—Four, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 4.
Mourning doves and white-winged doves.—Fifteen in the aggregate of both kinds, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 15 in the aggregate of both kinds.
Band-tailed pigeons.—Ten, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 10.
The possession limits hereinbefore prescribed shall apply as well to ducks, geese, brant, rails, including coot and gallinules, Wilson's snipe or jacksnipe, woodcock, mourning doves, white-winged doves, and band-tailed pigeons taken in Canada, Mexico, or other foreign country and brought into the United States, as to those taken in the United States.
Regulation 6, "Shipment, Transportation, and Possession of Certain Migratory Game Birds", is amended to read as follows:
Migratory game birds of a species for which open seasons are prescribed by regulation 4 of these regulations, legally taken, and parts thereof, may be transported in or out of the State where taken during the respective open seasons in that State, and when legally taken in and exported from Canada or Mexico, and if from Mexico are accompanied by a Mexican export permit, may be transported into the United States during the open season in the Province, State, or District where killed, but not more than the number thereof permitted by regulation 5 of these regulations to be taken by one person in 1 day, or in 2 days in the case of ducks, geese, and brant, shall be transported by any one person in 1 calendar week out of the State where taken or from Canada or Mexico into the United States; any such birds or parts thereof in transit during the open season may continue in transit such additional time immediately succeeding such open season, not to exceed 5 days, necessary to deliver the same to their destination, and may be possessed in any State, Territory, or District during the period constituting the open season where taken, and for an additional period of 10 days next succeeding said open season; and any package in which such birds or parts thereof are transported shall have the name and address of the shipper and of the consignee and an accurate statement of the numbers and kinds of birds or parts thereof contained therein clearly and conspicuously marked on the outside thereof; but no such bird's or parts thereof shall be transported from any State or Territory, or the District of Columbia to or through another State or Territory, or the District of Columbia, or to or through Canada or Mexico contrary to the laws of the State or Territory, or the District of Columbia in which they were taken or from which they are transported; nor shall any such birds or parts thereof be transported into any State or Territory, or the District of Columbia, from another State or Territory, or the District of Columbia, or from Canada or Mexico, or from any State or Territory, or the District of Columbia into any Province of the Dominion of Canada or into Mexico at a time when any such State, Territory, District, or Province, or Mexico, into which they are transported, prohibits the possession or transportation thereof.
Migratory game birds imported from countries other than Canada and Mexico.—Migratory game birds of a species for which open seasons are prescribed by regulation 4 of these regulations, legally taken in and exported from a foreign country (other than Canada and Mexico, for which provision is hereinbefore made) may be transported to any State or Territory during the open season prescribed by said regulation 4 for such State or Territory for that species, and to the District of Columbia during the open season so prescribed for Maryland, and may be possessed in such State, Territory, or District for an additional period of 10 days immediately succeeding such open season, in numbers by any one person in 1 calendar week not exceeding those permitted by regulation 5 of these regulations to be taken by one person in 1 day, or in 2 days in the case of ducks, geese, and brant, if transportation and possession of such birds is not prohibited by such State, Territory, or District and if transported in packages marked as hereinbefore provided in this regulation.
Paragraph numbered 2 of Regulation 8, "Permits to Propagate Waterfowl", is amended by striking out the word "retail" before the words "dealer in meat or game."
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States Department of Agriculture to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 12th day of July, 1938.
H A Wallace
 upon consideration it appears that approval of the foregoing amendatory regulations will effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act:
 President of the United States of America, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendatory regulations.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 16" day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-third.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL