Darryl L. DePriest, of Illinois, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant, resigned.
Eric Drake Eberhard, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2018, vice Bradley Udall, term expired.
John D. Feeley, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Panama.
Robert Porter Jackson, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ghana.
Derek Tai-Ching Kan, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Nancy A. Naples, term expired.
Victoria A. Lipnic, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2020. (Reappointment)
Michael Herman Michaud, of Maine, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Keith Kelly.
Beverly Angela Scott, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2019, vice Mark R. Rosekind, resigned.
Elissa Slotkin, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Derek H. Chollet, resigned.
John E. Sparks, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces for the term of fifteen years to expire on the date prescribed by law, vice James Edgar Baker, term expiring.
Michael F. Suarez, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2020, vice Dawn Ho Delbanco, term expired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Earl L. Gay, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management, vice Christine M. Griffin, which was sent to the Senate on January 8, 2015.
Derek Tai-Ching Kan, of California, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years, vice Jeffrey R. Moreland, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on July 13, 2015.