KEENE, N.H. – As world leaders meet at a Paris summit on climate change, Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday said he soon will introduce a comprehensive plan to cut U.S. carbon pollution 40 percent by 2030 and 80 percent by 2050.
Sanders' plan also would double the number of Americans working in clean-energy jobs.
Sanders lambasted Republicans in Congress and presidential candidates for being more concerned about their campaign contributions from the Koch brothers and the fossil fuel industry than the wellbeing of the planet they are leaving their children and grandchildren.
"Pope Francis is right. This planet is moving in a suicidal direction unless we effectively combat climate change and transform our energy system away from fossil fuels and toward energy efficiency and sustainable energy," Sanders said.
"The scientists are virtually unanimous that climate change is real, is caused by human activity and is already causing devastating problems in the United States and around the world. And, they tell us, if we do not act boldly the situation will only become much worse in years to come in terms of drought, floods, extreme storms and acidification of the oceans," he added.
"The United States must lead the world in working with China, Russia, India and the international community to break our energy dependence on fossil fuel," the senator continued. "Sadly, we now have a Republican Party that is more concerned about protecting the profits of Exxon, BP and Shell and the coal industry than protecting the planet. While fossil fuel companies are raking in record profits, climate change ravages our planet and our people – all because the wealthiest industry in the history of our planet has bribed politicians into ignoring science."
The comprehensive plan Sanders will soon release would:
Sanders spoke about climate change and other topics at a town meeting here in Keene, New Hampshire, attended by more than 1,000 supporters. Sanders was headed later on Saturday to speak at another town meeting in Plymouth, New Hampshire.