BATON ROUGE – Following Governor Jindal's strong performance during last night's debate, here is what they are saying are about his strategy and its impact:
This guy really deserves to be on the main stage. He had another commanding performance while Santorum embarrassed himself. Christie, welcomed to the kid's table, had to deal with a Jindal who is clearly not a fan of Christie's and Jindal got the better of him.
Bobby Jindal went on the attack against Chris Christie, going after the New Jersey governor's record on economic issues, dinging him as a "big-government Republican."

Records matter, Jindal said, as does the way governors govern. The Louisiana governor pointed to credit upgrades and budget decreases in Louisiana and credit downgrades and budget increases in New Jersey.
Jindal later sprung a trap for Christie, arguing he had failed to sufficiently trim his state's budget.
"Let's not just beat Hillary, let's elect a conservative to the White House, not just any Republican," Jindal said, arguing that the GOP shouldn't be "a second liberal party."
More than a few observers felt Jindal had pushed too hard. But one experienced GOP hand, Alex Castellanos, saw a deliberate strategy in Jindal's approach. "Turns out all @BobbyJindal needed to get big was a big opponent," Castellanos, who is not affiliated with any campaign, said. "Thank you @GovChristie. Best day of Jindal campaign yet."
Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal ripped his Republican presidential rivals at Tuesday night's GOP undercard debate, saying that no one but him is committed to cutting government spending.

Again, Bobby Jindal Won the First Debate 

two winners of undercard: @BobbyJindal spoke to IA and won. @GovChristie spoke to NH and won. good evening for both men. #GOPDebate

As the undercard winds up, conservatives will probably crown Jindal the winner. Christie also strong #GOPDebate #voaalert

Give this to @BobbyJindal - #GOPDebate would be a snoozer w/out him.

turns out all @BobbyJindal needed to get big was a big opponent. thank you @GovChristie. best day of jindal campaign yet. #GOPDebate

This Jindal-Christie spat is actually substantive and worthy of having.

Jindal isn't afraid to take the gloves off here. Attacking Christie and Huckabee on their records, has very specific facts down.

Jindal is on tonight.

Jindal taking Christie to school.

Bobby Jindal came seriously prepared tonight.

Jindal came to play

Jindal is energetic and in attack mode. Criticizing fellow governors and senators for not cutting budgets. #GOPDebate

There's not enough difference between the parties - that's the problem, says @BobbyJindal to big applause #GOPDebate

@BobbyJindal #GOPDebate on govt. spending, debt 'We keep stealing from our children. That is immoral, that is wrong'

Jindal: reason GOP keeps losing nationally is we're trying to be a cheaper version of the Democrats #GOPDebate @FoxNews @FoxBusiness

Bobby Jindal's claim that he's the only governor running who cut spending is true: 
 #GOPDebate