C?mo decir "gracias" la pr?xima vez que conozcas a un veterano.
In honor of Veterans Day this past Wednesday, we decided to ask two veterans how we can do a better job of saying "gracias."?Tiago Rodriguez dos Santos is a former airman, intelligence analyst, and current student at Columbia University.?Tiago always knew he wanted to go into the military. His grandfather was a World War II veteran, and joining the Air Force was pursuing a family legacy.
His advice? 
 
" There's a real fear of interacting with veterans, [sometimes] people think we're volatile, unapproachable people. I'd encourage them to talk to a veteran, to ask them about their experience. We're not scary people who can't be approached."


 
 
" Muchas personas tienen un poco de miedo de interactuar con veteranos, [a veces] la gente piensa que somos personas inestables, que somos personas inabordables. A ellos yo les dir?a que hablaran con un veterano, que pregunten sobre su experiencia. No somos personas a las que no se nos pueden acercar."

 
Today, he's a proud student at Columbia University's School of General Studies, a program that takes special care to integrate veterans across the student body.
Tiago with his girlfriend.
"I'm really fortunate to be here," he says.?
Homero Gonzalez with his husband.
Homero Gonzalez spent 14 years in the Air Force, serving in Afghanistan, Japan, South Korea, Germany, and across the United States.?While Homero appreciates Veterans Day, he likes to say that you shouldn't limit yourself to saying thank you just one day of the year.?"Everybody should be thankful everyday, to God, to each other, to your neighbors," he says. "That's my philosophy."?
 
Homero has traveled the world for his job, and he'd love to talk to you about all of that. His advice?
 
" Ask me about all my experiences, not just my experience while on active duty. Ask me about my experience in Japan or what it was like to be overseas and the different cultures I got to experience."


 
 
" Preg?ntame sobre todas mis experiencias, no s?lo mi experiencia durante mi servicio militar. Preg?ntame sobre mi experiencia en Jap?n o mi experiencia viviendo en el extranjero y sobre las diferentes culturas que pude vivir."

 
So next time you want to say "gracias" to a veteran, remember Tiago and Homero.?