



Thousands of Florida Republicans gathered in Orlando toward the end of last week for the state party's annual Sunshine Summit, and Marco got an awesome welcome from supporters in his home state.

Watch Marco's remarks:


This election will be a generational choice about the future of the United States, Marco told the conservative activists gathered. From 
:


"This election is a generational choice," Rubio said in leading off a parade of presidential candidates at the Florida Sunshine Summit, a convention-like meeting of Republican activists from around the state.

While avoiding intra-party feuds in his public remarks, Rubio kept his focus on President Obama, telling the supportive crowd that his administration has been "a disaster for real people in the real world," in terms of both the economy and national defense. He also blasted Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders for seeking to extend the Obama administration.
"The last seven years have been a disaster and the price is being paid by our people." — Rubio at 


— Jeff Butera (@ABC7Jeff) 
Marco Rubio first to take stage at 
. Says election is generational choice over future of country 


— Anthony Zurcher (@awzurcher) 
Even when Marco wasn't on stage, Team Marco made its presence known at the summit . 
 noted that the Rubio merchandise booth was head and shoulders above the rest:




All the presidential and U.S. senate candidates set up campaign booths in the corridor. Most included campaign literature, freebies, candy, bumper stickers, etc. Some were selling their books. All were seeking those valuable attendees' names and email addresses to add to the campaign's fund-raising and volunteers mailing lists.

U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio's booth was vastly different. It was more like a big clothing kiosk in a mall or a major airport's retail area. There, buyers sorted through racks of Rubio sweatshirts, hoodies, tee-shirts, golf hats and all kinds of other Rubio campaign merchandise.
You don't have to wait to shop in person, though — all the merchandise 
, with free shipping!

Marco used the Summit to outline his economic platform. As the 
, his plan will simplify the tax code and unleash American energy potential:


Rubio advocated repeal of the Affordable Care Act and promoted a three-tier tax plan that includes more tax credits for parents with children. He also promised new policy that would use energy resources in the country.

"God has blessed us with oil and other natural resources," Rubio said. "Let's use them fully."
The week ended on a somber note, as Floridians joined millions of other Americans standing with the people of France following the attacks in Paris by radical Islamists. Here was the Miami Tower in Marco's home town on Friday night:


Miami in solidarity with 
: The Miami Tower was illuminated Friday night in the color… 
 


— WLRN Public Media (@WLRN) 