

"I will not tire in my efforts, and I will not flag in my optimism for the future. Our nation has great reservoirs of strength we have not yet begun to tap: a dynamic and resilient people, a creative economy our adversaries cannot hope to match, and friends and partners all over the world who are waiting for us to recover our confidence." — Marco Rubio


It's official! 
 at NH State House just now 
 


— Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) 


When he isn't campaigning or taking care of his family, Rubio says he is a big Miami Dolphins football fan, and that his sons are following in his footsteps and playing football themselves. The sport, according to Rubio, teaches great life lessons such as working with others and accountability.


He highlights his belief that, at 44 years of age, he sees the world differently than older candidates. "This election is not a choice simply between Republicans and Democrats," Rubio said at a town hall at a college in Nashua, N.H., Wednesday night. "This election is a generational choice about what kind of country will America be in the 21st Century. That's what we're being asked to choose."


Dozens of people holding "Rubio" signs filled the hallways of the State House, as they chanted the candidate's name. Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, said being able to file for president is an " unbelievable experience" for him. "To actually be here and aspire for the highest office of the land, when just two decades ago my father was standing behind a small portable bar behind the back of a banquet hall, is to me a testament to the greatness of America," he said. "It's why I'm running for president: because I want it to remain that kind of country where stories like that are possible for more people."


The Florida senator talked extensively about the modernization of various aspects of American defense, including doing away with the cuts put into place by sequestration and beefing up the military, advancing cybersecurity technology and in missile defense. "We have today leaders at the highest levels of our government who believe that the world would be better off with a weaker, less engaged America," Rubio said. "Leaders who make national security decisions based on politics rather than on strategy; and leaders who fail to recognize that in today's global economy, foreign policy and domestic policy are truly and increasingly inseparable."
.
 getting mobbed after his town hall in Nashua, New Hampshire tonight 


— Sabrina Siddiqui (@SabrinaSiddiqui) 
NOW — 
 live in studio with 
 before heading to Concord to officially file 
 


— Jim Merrill (@JimMerrillNH) 
Enjoyed meeting a few NH voters on the trail this afternoon! 


— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) 
Didn't see Marco on this trip? He'll be back in New Hampshire soon!