— Presidential candidate Ted Cruz continues to shore up his strong support among libertarian voters, earning 51 percent support from voters participating in the straw poll held at the Republican Liberty Caucus in Nashua, NH over the weekend.
Cruz received 399 votes (51%), just a few points behind Rand Paul's 445 votes (57%).
"We are very encouraged by the growing support we are seeing among liberty voters in the early states and across the country," Cruz said. "I have spent my career defending the constitutional liberties that our nation was founded upon, and that are increasingly under assault today. From free speech and religious liberty to our right to bear arms and our right to privacy, I have been proud to lead on all these issues, whether before the Supreme Court or in the Senate. If I'm elected president, libertarian voters across the country can be confident that I will continue to stand for the U.S. Constitution at every turn."
Sen. Cruz's strong performance in the straw poll comes at the heels of a growing coalition of libertarian voters organizing in the early states and across the country for the Cruz for President campaign. The campaign's Liberty Leaders coalition is chaired by former U.S. Congressman Bob Barr (the 2008 Libertarian Party presidential nominee), with 25 former Ron Paul organizers and supporters leading efforts in the early states of Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina.
Sen. Cruz continues to expand his base among Tea Party, evangelical, and libertarian voters. He has won multiple recent straw polls demonstrating his deep base of support across the spectrum of Republican voters, including decisive victories in both the Freedom Works and the Values Voters straw polls.
Members of Sen. Cruz's Liberty Leaders coalition include:
, Goffstown
Rep. Christie is known as a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Center Barnstead
The Comtois' are former Ron Paul supporters. Rep. Comtois is a strong liberty leader in the State House and he and his wife are Belknap County Chairs for Cruz for President
, Middleton
The Vitas are former Ron Paul supporters
, East Kingston
Rep. Gordon is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House
, Epping
Harris is a former Ron Paul supporter
 North Hampton
Kenda is a small-business owner, prominent Liberty leader in the Granite State, and former candidate for State Senate
 Windham
Rep. Kolodziej is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
 Litchfield
Marquis is a former candidate for State Representative and strong Liberty activist.
, Derry
Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Bedford
O'Neil is a former candidate for State Representative, liberty activist, and former Ron Paul supporter.
, Manchester
Smith is a prominent Liberty activist in Manchester
, Barrington
Rep. Turcotte is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House.
 Spartanburg
Sen. Bright is endorsed and worked to get Ron Paul elected in 2012 and is a Cruz for President South Carolina Co-Chair
, Dorchester
Nash is president of the Low Country Republican Liberty Caucus and a South Carolina Cruz for President Co-Chair
, Spartanburg
Long is a South Carolina Liberty Activist and 2012 Ron Paul supporter
, Hampton
Franklin County Republican Party chairman, former Hampton mayor, 2014 candidate for Iowa State Senate, endorsed by Liberty Iowa and Rand Paul
,
Ron Paul 2008, 2012 Ida County Co-chair
, Des Moines
Kurtinitis is founding member of Liberty Iowa, and Ron Paul 2012 Regional Director
, Des Moines
Ron Paul 2012 volunteer, pro-life grassroots leader
,
Warren County, Iowa Supervisor
,
2012 Ron Paul supporter
,
District 9 Iowa State Senator, endorsed Ron Paul in 2011
,
Campaign for Liberty Precinct Coordinator, 'Voices of Reason' Podcast Founder and Co-host