



Marco started off his recent trip to Nevada with a 1,200-person rally in Summerlin on Thursday, which you can read about 
. He certainly kept up that momentum throughout the trip, as you can see in this local news report:


On his second day in the area, last Friday, Marco spoke at a Christian Businessmen's Network lunch in Las Vegas, where the room was absolutely packed and staff from the kitchen came out to hear him speak about the American Dream.


As Rubio addressed a business lunch in Vegas, a chef and waiter came out from the kitchen to listen and record video on their phones.

— Philip Rucker (@PhilipRucker) 
Rubio mentions Sam's Town, a low-end Vegas joint where his Dad worked as a bartender. Weaving American Dream speech. Guy can speak.

— Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) 
Then he attended a happy hour at Havana Grill in Vegas, which was, again, as crowded as can be.


Packed rally for Marco Rubio 
 


— Jeff Gillan (@jgillanNews3LV) 
CNN 
:


Far from the tourists on the Las Vegas strip, Marco Rubio breezed into the Havana Grill for Friday night happy hour with the certain lightness of a candidate on the upswing. There was a crush at the door and people standing on chairs in the dining room to try to get a glimpse of him — and though it's pretty hard to knock the Florida senator off his stump speech script, the crowd managed to do that. "They're handing out mojitos in the middle of my speech, I love it," Rubio said in slight amazement as he toggled between the fading American Dream and the need for entitlement reform. "I promise that has never happened before."
Marco did tons of local media during the trip, including 
 that included some talk about Nevada issues:


Later that day, Marco became (so far as we know) the first presidential candidate to attend a ribbon-cutting-by-samurai-sword, for Rick Harrison of 
' new retail complex.


Lieutenant Governor Mark Hutchison (Marco's state chairman) and Las Vegas mayor Carolyn Goodman were on hand for the event, too. The 
 has the story of how Harrison came to back Marco:


Rubio and Harrison became fast friends earlier this year. After meeting at a political fundraiser, they happened to be in Los Angeles at the same time a couple months later and had breakfast. "We sat around for close to two hours," said Harrison, "and he never once asked me for money and never once mentioned what's best for the party," said Harrison.
On Friday, Marco also had a meeting with the editorial board of the 
:


Nevada is a state we intend to spend a significant amount of time in for multiple reasons," Rubio said in an editorial board meeting with the Review-Journal on Friday. "Number 1 is obviously, I have an affinity to it, having lived here for a long time."
University of Nevada — Reno professor Eric Herzik told the 
 that right now Marco is the most organized candidate for the Nevada caucuses:


"It's not a surprise that Rubio is out of the gate first," said Eric Herzik, chairman of the political science department at the University of Nevada, Reno. "He's probably the best organized in the state, certainly among Republicans." . . . "He also sees Nevada as a real opportunity for him to score big, stressing his roots in Nevada, the fact that he's Latino, that he can talk to both conservatives and traditional Republicans. This is his kind of state."
Saturday morning, Marco did another packed town hall in Boulder City, where he got the endorsement of several local elected officials, and talked about unleashing America's energy potential:


Marco comes 2 Boulder & gets the endorsement of Mayor Woodbury & former Mayors Tobler,Ferraro & Councilwoman Leavitt 


— Jeremy Hughes (@jeremybhughes) 
Rubio tells a crowd in NV that taking advantage of natural gas can "lead the way" to a "manufacturing Renaissance." 


— Danny Freeman (@DannyEFreeman) 
Over 300 in Boulder City for Saturday morning rally with 
! 


— Alex Conant (@AlexConant) 
Later Saturday, Marco attended a town hall meeting hosted by the LIBRE Initiative, where he told supporters that he learned a lot about the American Dream in Nevada.


The 
 reports:


His old working-class neighborhood in North Las Vegas, where Marco Rubio spent six impressionable years of his youth, looks more like the majority of Latino America than Rubio's hometown of West Miami. Restaurants sell tacos. Bars advertise soccer matches. Conversations sound distinctly Mexican. The Florida senator says he feels right at home. He's speaking at the Catholic school he attended "for a month" before pleading with his parents to go back to public school with his friends. He's just driven past the community pool where he learned how to swim. "I learned a lot about the American Dream in Nevada," Rubio says.
Saturday night, Marco spoke to the Clark County GOP's block party, where he drew a huge crowd:


Senator 
 shared his thoughts on the American Dream at our Block Party tonight. 
 


— Clark County GOP (@ClarkCountyGOP) 
Marco wrapping up great Nevada swing by speaking to 300+ at Clark County GOP block party 


— Alex Conant (@AlexConant) 
After that, it was time to bid Nevada good-bye — but Marco will be back soon!


Thanks to all who came out. Great couple of days. 
 will keep grinding and keep growing. 


— Robert Daniels (@DanielsRobertD) 