

If the American economy is to reach its full potential in the 21st Century, American workers must have all the opportunities possible. Marco supports a wide range of reforms that will protect workers, modernize our labor rules, create new incentives for job creation, and unleash innovation. Marco's plans will help workers who have suffered during the Obama Administration's anemic economic recovery.


If the American Dream is to be preserved and expanded to more people than ever before, we need comprehensive economic reforms to help American workers. Marco proposes to:


As a Senator, Marco has pushed for updating outdated labor regulations and throwing out rules that empower unions rather than create opportunities for workers. As President, he'll continue that fight. He plans to:

Marco has a comprehensive tax reform plan that will cut taxes for working Americans, jumpstart investment, and slash corporate taxes to boost wages.

The nonpartisan Tax Foundation estimates that it will raise wages for all taxpayers and create millions of jobs. 


Marco will oppose harmful new mandates, regulations, and taxes that can get in the way of innovative work opportunities provided by the sharing economy. 


Marco proposes modernizing our outdated higher education system so that American workers can get the skills they need at an affordable price and in ways compatible with other priorities. 


Making the best use of America's energy resources provides abundant opportunities for high-paying jobs, many of which don't even require a college degree. Marco will lift allow states to oversee energy production on federal lands, cut back on job-killing EPA regulations, and more. 


Marco has proposed a National Regulatory Budget, which will set a limit on the costs that can be imposed by federal regulations overall and by rules from each federal agency. This will roll back regulators' ability to strangle job creation and restore Congress's ability to oversee regulation. 






 (
, March 4, 2015)