Fresh off a new fundraising report that detailed Marco's strong cash-on-hand and fiscal responsibility, leading Republicans in New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Illinois announced their support for Marco this week.
 One of New Hampshire's most sought-after Republican activists has signed on with U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio's presidential campaign, WMUR.com has learned. Chris Wolfe of Derry, a former co-chairman of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's campaign, has joined the Florida senator's campaign in the same capacity — as a state co-chair. Since Walker's departure from the race,
Wolfe has been one of the most highly sought-after activists in the first-primary state, reportedly taking calls from former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, among others. Wolfe said in a statement: "I'm proud to endorse Marco Rubio and support his campaign to become our next president. I've had the privilege of meeting and speaking with many of our candidates, but after carefully reviewing the field, Marco Rubio clearly stands apart.
.
 1ST: Top NH GOP activist Chris Wolfe endorses 
 for president 
 
 
 
— John DiStaso (@jdistaso) 
. Pennsylvania House Speaker Mike Turzai endorsed U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio for president on Friday during a Republican House leadership fundraiser in Pittsburgh. Rubio was keynote speaker for the event that raises money to help elect Republicans to the state House. "We speakers have a special bond," said Turzai, R-Marshall. Rubio was the youngest House speaker ever when he served in Florida's legislature.
Powerful Pennsylvania House Speaker Turzai endorses 
 at largest GOP fundraiser event ever in 
 
 — SalenaZito (@SalenaZitoTrib) 
 
 Wisconsin state Assembly Speaker Robin Vos and 19 other Republican state lawmakers are endorsing Florida Sen. Marco Rubio for president. … Vos says in a statement that Rubio "has the right conservative vision for our country" and "celebrates what is great about America's past, but provides a new generation's leadership."
 Newly elected U.S. Rep. 
, R-Ill., is endorsing Marco Rubio for president. LaHood, a Peoria Republican, said in a statement Wednesday that Rubio represents the "best and brightest of what America has to offer." … "Marco is a transformational leader with a bold vision for a New American Century and I look forward to serving as Co-Chair of his Illinois Presidential campaign. Marco's uplifting plan to create good paying 21st century jobs will ensure more people will be able to achieve the American Dream," LaHood said in the statement.