Juli?n Castro, Hillary hair art, and a few palabras for the Republican Party.
Hillary wrapped up Hispanic Heritage Month with a 
? in San Antonio. The Lone Star ?
? welcomed her with open arms.
The soundtrack for the event—
 of course—set the stage for 
 from head to toe.
Three-time San Antonio mayor Juli?n Castro kicked off the event by endorsing Hillary.
As Juli?n said,?
?The difference between [Hillary] and the Republicans is that she respects the Latino community.?
Next up: La Hillary, who was greeted by enthusiastic 
La Hillary's no stranger to Texas.
?I owe the people of South Texas a lot. ? When I came to San Antonio for the first time, I was 24 years old. There was a presidential race going on back then, and I was sent by the Democratic National Committee to register Texas voters. So I came down here for the summer with my boyfriend. ? And I've got to tell you, Bill and I fell in love with South Texas. We ate a lot of green enchiladas at Mi Tierra. We drank our share of Shiner Bocks. We ate way too much mango ice cream from the Menger Hotel. And we made lifelong friends and had so many unforgettable experiences.?
It wasn't all a 
 though. The would-be abuela-in-chief had a few 
 
?The leading Republican candidate for president says that immigrants from Mexico are rapists and drug dealers ? I plan to continue calling out that kind of hateful speech whenever and wherever I see it. Because Latinos and Latinas, you're not strangers. You're not intruders. You're our neighbors, our friends, our families. And because you are our fellow Americans, you deserve to be treated with respect and dignity and to have an equal shot at opportunity, just like everybody else."
The bottom line? "Estoy contigo."
?I promise I'll keep working on my pronunciation to say it just right.?

  hillaryclinton loves being La Hillary! ??'?
 
 
 @ Sunset Station 
— Eric Gloria (@EricGlorious) 



  Saw 
 today. 
 kickoff here in San Antonio. Intro by 
! Viva 
 !! 
— Oralia (@olara) 


??"rale Hillary!
To receive updates from the campaign trail, text LATINOS to 47246.