Mic-drop moments from the first Democratic debate.
Hillary took the stage last night for her first debate of the campaign primary—and she more than did us proud. Here are eight moments we loved (and apparently we weren't the only ones):
Hillary was the first candidate to confront Republican attacks on Planned Parenthood ? and the last.

  Let it be known that Hillary Clinton is the first person in this debate to bring up repro rights 
 
— Meg Yee (@meghanyee) 



  HRC spitting HOT FEMINIST FIRE ??'?— Sarah Marian Seltzer (@sarahmseltzer) 


You don't spend decades fighting for American families without making a few enemies along the way ...

  okay 
 just rattled off a fabulous list of enemies! 
 
— Jimmy williams (@Jimmyspolitics) 



  Best enemies list: HRC 
— Jennifer Cunningham (@JCSKDK) 


Thoughts and prayers aren't enough. We need to act on gun violence.

  The entire country needs to stand up against the NRA - Hilary Clinton 
 This is what we want to hear, THANK YOU— I'm PREETI Scary (@runwithskizzers) 



  "It's time the entire country stands up against the 
!" 
 
 YES!!!— Lynn Margherita (@lemnosalt) 


Can't argue with that.

  "The economy does better when theres a democrat in the white house."--HRC Hell yeah! 
 
— Jennifer Kaseman (@jkaseman) 



  Amen sistah "the economy does better when you have a democrat in the White House" 
 drops ???? 
— yup..its...alia! (@aliawasi) 


Because sometimes ?no? is a complete sentence.

  Hillary was like straight "NO" ???????????????????? 
 
 
— Kiki (@Kiki1788) 



  ?Secretary Clinton, do you want to respond??

?No.?

Oh hell yeah. 
 
— Evan Sutton (@suttnutz) 


Americans want to talk about issues, not emails.

  Oh my gosh. An adult debate focused on the ISSUES. No name-calling! It can be done!!

 
— JDB (@jdb231) 



  "Do you want to respond?? NO!!" 
 
 
 
— Tierra W (@Tierra__W) 


That's something we can all get behind.

  Hillary Clinton - "I'm a progressive who likes to get things done." Well said Madame Secretary. 
— Wendy Davis (@wendydavis) 



  ????RT 
: "I'm a progressive who likes to get things done" 
 
 
 
— Gayle (@Soyndoff) 


One of these things is not like the others ?

  
 seriously, a woman president. How great would that be? Let alone a brilliant experienced grandma! She is winning this.— Jonathan Penner (@SurvivorPenner) 



  Best line of night! RT 
: "I can't think of anything more outsider than being the first woman president." -Hillary 
— s shinkle gardner (@shinksg) 

