In 1965, health care programs and Social Security spending were less than a sixth of Washington's budget, but today they consume almost half of all federal spending and crowd out other national priorities. Without action, the problem will only get worse: Spending will more than double — as a share of our economy — by 2040.
Unless we make changes to preserve and protect Medicare and Social Security, the trust funds will be exhausted and benefits will be cut. In Medicare, hospital benefits will be cut by nearly 15 percent in 2030. In Social Security, benefits will be cut by more than 20 percent in 2034.
 Medicare spending is crowding out other national priorities. On the current path, the country will spend more on Medicare than it will on national defense by 2019. Over the next 75 years, the program will exceed dedicated financing sources by $28 trillion.
 Under current law, seniors in Medicare can choose the traditional option (called fee-for-service) or private health plan options (called Medicare Advantage). However, politicians, bureaucrats and lobbyists — not doctors, patients and innovators — decide how much government pays for those benefits. Under this proposal, private health care plans (like Humana and Kaiser), other innovators and traditional Medicare will compete on the best price to offer Medicare benefits to seniors. Seniors' premium support will be based on the average of those prices — and be 6 percent lower on average. Competition will make spending more efficient, and seniors could pay less and have more options.

  Competition will make spending more efficient, and seniors could pay less and have more options.



  These sweeping proposed regulations will limit consumer choice of financial advisors, hurt low-income Americans and drive up the costs of private saving. Governor Bush will not let that happen.


The following reforms will value work:
 No current retirees or seniors approaching retirement will see a cut in benefits under this proposal.
Three reforms, which have all received bipartisan support, would slow the growth of Social Security costs: