As a great, prosperous and compassionate nation, we must ensure access to health care and retirement income security for our seniors.
Seniors rely on Medicare to provide access to critical health care and for financial security following their working years. Since 1935, Social Security has played an important role in ensuring workers have a base of retirement income, reducing poverty among seniors in retirement and protecting Americans against the risks of disability and premature death. Workers contribute to the programs during their working years and see a return on those contributions during their retirement years.
Unfortunately, too many Washington politicians have been unwilling to engage in an honest conversation with voters about maintaining a social contract with seniors and the next generation. In 1965, health care programs and Social Security spending were less than a sixth of Washington's budget, but today they consume almost half of all federal spending and crowd out other national priorities. Without action, the problem will only get worse: spending will more than double as a share of our economy by 2040, growing from $1.8 trillion to $4.5 trillion. Unless we make changes to preserve and protect Medicare and Social Security, the trust funds will be exhausted and benefits will be cut. In Medicare, hospital benefits will be cut by nearly 15 percent in 2030. In Social Security, benefits will be cut by more than 20 percent in 2034.
Improving security for current seniors and prosperity for the next generation will require experienced leadership.
Too many politicians in Washington have not been honest about the unsustainability of the Medicare program. Governor Bush believes that everyone deserves the truth and that seniors deserve better quality care. He also believes that care providers should not be saddled with heavy-handed regulations. Governor Bush will approach these challenges with the following strategy:
There is bipartisan concern about Medicare's fiscal sustainability. Serious and thoughtful Democrats and Republicans have had the courage to acknowledge that Medicare needs to be strengthened, if it is to be preserved long-term.
Here are the fiscal facts about Medicare:
Medicare needs to be strengthened to make it work better for current seniors and preserve it for the next generation. Rather than doubling down on bureaucratic boondoggles or increasing taxes, Governor Bush will enable a more innovative Medicare to achieve better outcomes with more efficient spending.
Governor Bush will give seniors access to care that is:
Governor Bush will achieve these goals through premium support, a bipartisan idea supported by leaders such as Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI), Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), former Budget Director Alice Rivlin, former Senator John Breaux (D-LA), former Senator Bill Frist (R-TN), former Senator Bob Kerrey (D-NE) and former Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH).
Under current law, seniors in Medicare can choose the traditional option (called fee-for-service) or private health plan options (called Medicare Advantage).
However, politicians, bureaucrats and lobbyists — not doctors, patients and innovators — decide how much government pays for those benefits. Under this proposal, private health care plans, like Humana and Kaiser, other innovators and traditional Medicare will compete on the best price to offer Medicare benefits to seniors. Seniors' premium support level will be based on the average of those prices. If a senior chooses a plan cheaper than the average price, they will realize the savings. If a senior chooses a more expensive plan, they will pay the difference in the form of a higher premium. Competition will make spending more efficient, and seniors could pay less and have more options.
 Instead of delivering benefits almost exactly like traditional Medicare does, private plans could offer "actuarially equivalent" benefits. The value of the benefits will be the same, but participants could design a plan that better meets patient needs. For example, a private health plan may offer a plan that covers fewer days in the hospital each year but reduces the need for hospitalization because the senior can talk to their doctor with a free video communication tool whenever they have a medical question. A different private health plan may offer a high-deductible plan that covers fewer physician visits but gives seniors money to pay for a physician visit through a fully-funded Health Savings Account (HSA) (Payments to participants will continue to be adjusted based on the health risks of patients in order to minimize insurers covering only healthy individuals).
 Competition need not be limited to insurers and traditional Medicare in a premium support model. The level of consolidation in the health care industry is at an all-time high, and the need for additional, innovative options for seniors has never been greater. Governor Bush will encourage new entrants to compete for seniors' business.
This proposal will 
 premiums for enrollees by approximately six percent, on average, relative to current law projections. According to non-partisan estimates, this proposal could achieve hundreds of billions of dollars in savings over the next two decades. The experience with Medicare Part D — which is now 40 percent under its original budget — demonstrates that this competitive structure can achieve even greater cost savings and high quality care over the long term.
These reforms will secure and strengthen Medicare, enabling us to move closer to the goal of improving Medicare for seniors and guaranteeing the next generation a more prosperous future.
Washington's over-promising has resulted in an impending Social Security crisis. Ten years ago the Social Security program ran annual budget surpluses, and today it is running major deficits. Because Congress never acted to secure the program, the problems are now more difficult to solve. Strengthening retirement income security will require a three-part strategy:
. Seventy-four percent of full-time workers have access to some type of retirement plan through their employers. Among workers at medium and large companies, the rate is 84 percent. Americans have accrued over $25 trillion in personal and employer-sponsored retirement plans and another $26 trillion in Social Security benefits (which the government does not have a plan to pay for). 
Current American retirees have among the highest incomes across westernized countries, both in dollar terms and relative to the incomes of working-age residents.
. Workers contribute five to seven percent of their salaries to retirement accounts. Adding employer contributions, total savings are 10 percent. These savings will be an important part of complementing Social Security income during retirement.
While access to retirement accounts is at an all-time high, more can be done to make these savings vehicles a reality for small-business and part-time employees. Only 51 percent of small-business employees have access to an employer-sponsored retirement plan, and the majority of low-wage workers lack access to an employer-sponsored savings plan.
To build on progress toward private saving and offer more options to employers and individuals, Governor Bush will:
Life expectancy has increased substantially since Social Security was created in 1935. Yet Social Security's structure still discourages work past early retirement ages. Individuals, who delay retirement under current law, must continue to pay payroll taxes, but the additional benefits they earn are rarely enough to compensate for more than a fraction of these additional taxes. Reforms should update Social Security to respect seniors' desires and abilities to continue to work later in their lives. Governor Bush will encourage work through the following reforms:
Without action to stabilize Social Security, current law will result in benefits being cut by more than 20 percent when the program's trust fund runs out. These drastic cuts will hit people both rich and poor — and at any age during retirement. Bipartisan problem-solvers know what needs to be done and, with strong leadership, Americans can avoid sudden benefit reductions and have a smoother and more sustainable rate of growth going forward. Modest changes now can prevent even more painful cuts down the road.
Based on bipartisan proposals in the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform (Simpson-Bowles), Governor Bush will ensure that Social Security remains stable over the next 75 years. Over the long-term, the money coming into Social Security will match the benefits paid. This was a goal supported by President Roosevelt at the program's creation.