The epidemic of untreated substance use disorder is a crisis that claims tens of thousands of American lives each year. With deaths from prescription drug overdoses 
 since 1999, overdose-related deaths now 
 the number of traffic fatalities, suicides, or homicides. Yet our response has not matched the scale of the emergency. Proven prevention and treatment strategies are underutilized. Funding for treatment programs is insufficient. Outdated stigmas make too many people reluctant to seek care, and make too many communities unwilling to provide it. Millions of families are needlessly torn apart.
As Mayor of Baltimore and Governor of Maryland, Martin O'Malley brought all resources to bear to stop the epidemic of drug addiction and overdose. In Baltimore, Martin O'Malley expanded access to drug treatment to thousands of people while more than doubling funding for the city's treatment system. His innovative efforts drove a 60 percent reduction in overdose deaths from heroin 
—a program still cited as a 
.
In Maryland, Governor O'Malley made addressing addiction one of his Administration's top goals. The centerpiece of this agenda includes forming an Overdose Prevention Council, which coordinates state agencies and local governments to collaborate on reducing overdose deaths. Under Governor O'Malley's leadership, Maryland increased addiction treatment services by 45 percent, helped doctors identify and treat substance use disorder, and empowered pharmacies and first responders to stock and safely administer overdose-reversing drugs. Maryland also developed the nation's first local overdose review teams, which review the circumstances of each overdose death to find lessons for prevention.
As a nation, we have looked past people imprisoned by drug addiction for too long—despite having the tools to save them. They are our husbands, wives, brothers, sisters, and children. By focusing coordinated public health efforts on outcomes and holding ourselves accountable for results, we can save lives, spare families anguish, and rebuild our communities.
An O'Malley Administration will provide a new level of support and accountability for efforts to address addiction and overdose in the United States. 
.
As president, Governor O'Malley will take a public health approach to substance use disorders: developing and implementing a coordinated national strategy to reduce risky prescribing of pain medications, expanding access to effective addiction treatment, and investing in community resources for recovery.
To manage this strategy, Governor O'Malley will establish a national dashboard on overdose and addiction to monitor the problem, track our response nationwide, and target resources so that all Americans have access to critical services that support prevention, treatment, and recovery. This includes improving data collection and sharing information more quickly—with law enforcement, first responders and physicians, and other local leaders—so communities can respond effectively as soon as addiction and overdose challenges arise. 
The dashboard's first use will be to reduce addiction to fentanyl—a highly potent and deadly narcotic increasingly laced into heroin—which was responsible for an unprecedented number of overdose deaths last year. The problem is especially acute in New Hampshire, where fentanyl 
 than heroin in 2014. Within 100 days of taking office, O'Malley will direct his Administration to create and adopt a national fentanyl strategy—one that includes expanded prevention education, greater coordination with law enforcement, increased use of naloxone to reverse overdose, and robust treatment.
The rapid rise in prescribing drugs to manage pain has contributed to the epidemic of opioid addiction. Physicians have an important role to play in reducing the inappropriate use of prescription drugs and helping individuals suffering from addiction reach treatment. As president, Governor O'Malley will:
As the Mayor of Baltimore, Governor O'Malley led an effort that reduced heroin-related deaths by more than 60 percent—by expanding the resources for treatment, and focusing on therapies that worked. As president, he will ensure that states and local governments have the funding, support, and information they need to save lives:
In Maryland, Governor O'Malley supported innovative services for individuals in recovery to help them gain employment, as well as contribute to their families and their communities. As president, O'Malley would: