I'm going to start today by venting, and I will warn you in advance that this is going to be a sermon, but someone needs to speak the truth for a change:
Another week, another mass shooting, another press conference by the President lecturing us on the need for gun control, and now Hillary and Obama are in a race to see which of them can be the most extreme in trying to destroy the Second Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Rinse and repeat.
But there is something missing from this discussion, and it's a glaring omission that everyone knows deep down, but politicians are afraid to talk about.
I'm going to go ahead and talk about it, and I don't care at all if some people don't like it, the truth is important.
What is the root cause of all these evil acts? These people who go into classrooms and churches and murder innocent people? How did we get to this place?
These shootings are a symptom of deep and serious cultural decay in our society.
Let that sink in for a minute.
These acts of evil are a direct result of cultural rot, and it is cultural rot that we have brought upon ourselves, and then we act like we are confounded and perplexed by what is happening here.
Consider the following brew of decay, and you will realize exactly what is happening here:
This mess is not nearly as complicated as we pretend.
It's the old computer axiom – garbage in, garbage out. We fill our culture with garbage, and we reap the result.
If anyone is at all serious about changing any of this, they must address the root problems, and those are cultural decay, the glorification of evil, the devaluation of human life, the breakdown of the family, and specifically the complete abdication of fathers.
Meanwhile, the shallow and simple minded liberals will continue to blame pieces of hardware for the problem, and they will long for the days before firearms were invented.
But the simple truth is, as long as we place no value on human life, as long as we glorify senseless violence and evil, we will get the exact same result.