President Obama is committed to protecting the ocean and its marine ecosystems. The Administration has launched landmark initiatives and policies to protect and preserve some of our country's most special places and introduce a new generation of Americans to our national lands and waters.

Today, in a 
 to the "Our Ocean" conference participants in Chile, President Obama will announce that the Administration is taking the next steps to create two new marine sanctuaries – one in the tidal waters of Maryland, and one in Wisconsin's Lake Michigan waters. He will also announce new steps to tackle illegal fishing. During the closing of the conference, the State Department will announce additional steps and commitments from the United States and other governments and partners from around the world to protect our oceans.

Across the country, Americans depend on the ocean for food, jobs, and recreation. However, our ocean and marine ecosystems are increasingly threatened. Climate change is causing sea levels and ocean temperatures to rise. Changing temperatures harm coral reefs and force certain species to migrate. In addition, carbon pollution is being absorbed by the oceans, causing them to acidify, which damages coastal shellfish beds and reefs, altering entire marine ecosystems. Currently, the rate of acidification of our oceans is increasing 10 to 100 times faster than any time in the past 55 million years.

This week, Chile is hosting the second "Our Ocean" conference to bring the nations of the world together to address these challenges. The U.S. State Department hosted the first version of the conference in 2014 pledging to promote sustainable fisheries, reduce marine pollution, and stem ocean acidification.

Today's action builds on other steps the President has taken to protect important marine areas, including designating the Bristol Bay area of Alaska as off-limits to future oil and gas leasing. Last year, President Obama signed a proclamation to expand the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument, creating the world's largest marine reserve off-limits to commercial extraction and protecting one of the most pristine tropical marine environments in the world. As the President said in his video address today, he will look for opportunities to protect even more of our waters in the months ahead.




Today the President will announce that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is moving forward to designate the first new National Marine Sanctuaries since 2000, one in Maryland and the other in the Great Lakes.


Last year, the Administration gave Americans the opportunity to nominate nationally significant marine and Great Lakes areas as national marine sanctuaries for the first time in 20 years. Since NOAA re-opened the public nomination process, seven submissions have been put forward by communities interested in protecting significant marine areas. Many of these nominations have included hundreds of support letters from a wide variety of stakeholders. The proposed sanctuary sites will be open for public comment now through January 15, 2016.




More than 2.5 billion people worldwide depend on fish for food and nutrition. In the U.S. alone, Americans consumed 4.6 billion pounds of seafood in 2013. The U.S., working with communities, fishermen, conservation groups, and others has made enormous progress in responsibly managing fisheries and ensuring they will continue to be productive for years to come. The U.S. is a global leader in sustainable fishing and is announcing several steps to help combat illegal fishing across the world.

