Over 1,000 people were in the Villages, Florida, a key Republican campaigning stop, last night to hear Marco Rubio's vision for a New American Century. The crowd filled not one but 
 overflow rooms.
Senator Rubio got a rousing standing ovation when he took to the stage, then again when he talked about national security. … Rubio scored his longest, loudest applause of the day when he referred to a portrait in the Eisenhower Recreation Center, of the former president and general, saying it's time we increased the size of our military. "In the face of all of this danger, we are reducing our military and we know history proves, and the things on this wall prove, that the world is a safer place when America is the strongest military force on this planet," Rubio said. Rubio went on to say, "If I am ever blessed to be President of the United States, hopefully in about a year, not only will we have the strongest military in the world, but our allies will trust us and our adversaries will respect us," Rubio said.
"We cannot simply promote the next person in line or the most familiar name," Rubio said, warning that without new leadership the country may leave the next generation with less opportunity than had been left for the current generation. He talked broadly about cutting regulations, expanding domestic energy production, beefing up the military, repealing Obamacare and putting greater emphasis on promoting vocational education.
Some individuals who were impressed with Marco:
 From the Associated Press:
Mike Fleming, 60, who is originally from Michigan and retired to The Villages a year ago, supports Rubio because he sees him as "an outsider" who "is the kind of change we need in Washington."
 From the 
:
We need someone to win — we need to change the office, and I think we have a better chance with someone who's younger.
 From the 
:
It's time that a younger generation step forward to take up the reins, and I think Sen. Rubio is the perfect person.
 From the Associated Press:
According to Charlie Weill, 65, Rubio knows the federal government's role is "to protect the country" and to "get out of the way" of the economy.
 From the 
:
Paul Bova, 74, said he found Rubio "very uplifting" and was not at all anxious about his age.
2 overflow rooms at The Villages for 
, 500+ ppl 
— Adam Smith (@adamsmithtimes) 
And here's the front page of the Villages' paper: