 – Presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced 17 members of his Liberty Leaders for Cruz coalition from New Hampshire and South Carolina, joining chairman Bob Barr and eight previously announced Iowa Liberty leaders.
Members listed below, all of whom have joined Cruz for President leadership teams in their respective states.
, Goffstown

Rep. Christie is known as a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Center Barnstead

The Comtois' are former Ron Paul supporters.  Rep. Comtois is a strong liberty leader in the State House and he and his wife are Belknap County Chairs for Cruz for President
, Middleton

The Vitas are former Ron Paul supporters
, East Kingston

Rep. Gordon is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House
, Epping

Harris is a former Ron Paul supporter
, North Hampton

Kenda is a small-business owner, prominent Liberty leader in the Granite State, and former candidate for State Senate
, Windham

Rep. Kolodziej is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Litchfield

Marquis is a former candidate for State Representative and strong Liberty activist.
, Derry

Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Bedford

O'Neil is a former candidate for State Representative, liberty activist, and former Ron Paul supporter.
, Manchester

Smith is a prominent Liberty activist in Manchester
, Barrington

Rep. Turcotte is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House.
, Spartanburg

Sen. Bright endorsed and worked to get Ron Paul elected in 2012 and is a Cruz for President South Carolina Co-Chair
, Dorchester

Nash is president of the Low Country Republican Liberty Caucus and a South Carolina Cruz for President Co-Chair
, Spartanburg

Long is a South Carolina Liberty Activist and 2012 Ron Paul supporter
Hampton

Franklin County Republican Party chairman, 2014 candidate for Iowa State Senate, endorsed by Liberty Iowa and Rand Paul

Ron Paul 2008, 2012 County Chair
, Des Moines

Kurtinitis is a founding member of Liberty Iowa, and Ron Paul 2012 Regional Director
Des Moines

Ron Paul 2012 volunteer, pro-life grassroots leader

Warren County, Iowa Supervisor

2012 Ron Paul supporter

District 9 Iowa State Senator, endorsed Ron Paul in 2011

Campaign for Liberty Precinct Coordinator, 'Voices of Reason' Podcast Founder and Co-host