Truly fixing our economy requires fixing our democracy. Today in America, big-money special interests have taken over our elections. In the five years since the Supreme Court's disastrous 
 ruling
 super PACs, corporations and dark money groups have spent almost 
 trying to sway the outcome of federal elections—2.5 times what they spent, in total, between 1990 and 2008. As a result, special interests have drowned out our voices, while relentlessly lobbying for policies that improve their bottom lines at the expense of the American middle class. This corrupt system—while technically "legal"—forces candidates into a race to the bottom, embracing the muscle of their super PACs even as they espouse democratic principles and lukewarm promises of change.
It's time for actions, not just words, on campaign finance reform—and Americans of all political stripes agree. 
 as part of his 
 Meeting this ambitious goal will require a new campaign finance system, a tougher regulatory system, and stronger disclosure rules—in addition to an unrelenting effort to overturn 
 once and for all.
Today in America, due to a deeply flawed reading of our Constitution, a handful of wealthy special interests and corporations are able to buy candidates and elections—on both sides of the aisle—ensuring that the voices of the vast majority of Americans are not heard.
As president, Governor O'Malley will:
Runaway election spending by special interests forces candidates to listen to big money donors over the voters they claim to represent. As races are inundated with more and more outside spending, members of Congress now devote 
 of their time to fundraising, not governing. At the same time, the total number of small donors has begun to fall. In 2014, the 
 to super PACs spent almost as much money as every single small-dollar donor combined.
It's time for a new campaign finance system that gives candidates the opportunity to raise a larger number of smaller contributions from people back home—encouraging every citizen to participate in the democratic process and making candidates truly work for every vote.
Governor O'Malley has set a national goal of implementing public financing of congressional elections within five years. To meet that goal, he supports the 
 introduced by Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD). As president, Governor O'Malley will work aggressively with Congress to pass and implement the Act.
Through the Government By the People Act, Governor O'Malley will:
One of the biggest problems with our campaign finance laws is that we don't enforce the laws we already have. 
, their 
, and even 
 are complicit in openly defying the letter and spirit of the law as they vie for 
 campaign contributions from Wall Street, fossil fuel companies and other special interests. And they do so without penalty, because the Federal Election Commission is now so gridlocked and broken that its commissioners have 
 altogether. This is an unbelievable and unacceptable outcome. But as the chairwoman of the FEC 
 herself, "There is not going to be any real enforcement" of campaign finance regulations in 2016.
We need a new, nonpartisan system that actually works, both to hold candidates and PACs accountable under existing rules—and to enforce the next generation of stronger, citizen-driven election laws.
The Federal Election Commission was designed and weakened by those it regulates—members of Congress—in order to be as ineffectual as possible. With three appointed members from each party, the commission is inherently partisan and perpetually deadlocked. As a result, its members cannot complete basic orders of business without resorting to 
; their 
 is now unprecedented. The FEC is imposing 
 even as political spending soars, failing to hold lawbreakers accountable and failing to respond to 
.
It's time to fix the FEC—while making its mission and work a real national priority.
As president, Governor O'Malley will:
Our laws are riddled with loopholes that allow corporations and other special interests to pump undisclosed and unaccountable money into our elections. The biggest loophole is that "social welfare groups" face no requirements that they disclose their donors at all. Two such groups put 
 into the presidential campaign in 2012 than all super PACs combined.
It's time to bring "dark money" political spending into the light—through extensive executive action, and by passing strong and comprehensive disclosure laws.
The federal government already has significant authority to establish strong, comprehensive financial disclosure requirements. However, political pressure and partisan dysfunction have prevented agencies from putting forward commonsense and long-overdue transparency rules.
As president, Governor O'Malley will: