 the first section of the act of Congress approved the eleventh day of June, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-four, entitled "An Act to provide for the execution of treaties between the United States and foreign nations respecting consular jurisdiction over the crews of vessels of such foreign nations in the waters and ports of the United States" (13 Stat. L. 121; U.S.C., title 22, sec. 256), provides that "before this act shall take effect as to the ships and vessels of any particular nation having such treaty with the United States, the President of the United States shall have been satisfied that similar provisions have been made for the execution of such treaty by the other contracting party, and shall have issued his proclamation to that effect, declaring this act to be in force as to such nation"; and
 the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce, and Consular Rights concluded between the United States and Norway on June 5, 1928, and the additional article thereto, signed on February 25, 1929 (47 Stat. L. [pt. 2] 2135), provides for the jurisdiction of Norwegian consular officers in the waters and ports of the United States over controversies arising out of the internal order of private vessels of Norway and for the enforcement of discipline thereon by such consular officers; and
 due inquiry has been made of the Norwegian Government, and an answer has been received containing satisfactory assurances that provisions similar to the provisions of the said act for the execution of said treaty have been made and are in force in Norway;
, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim that provisions have been made to that effect by Norway and declare the aforesaid act approved June 11, 1864, as amended (U.S.C., title 22, secs. 256-258) to be in force as to Norway.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 8th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL