 the Secretary of Agriculture has submitted to me for approval the following amendatory regulation adopted by him on January 22, 1938, under authority of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755):
The regulation entitled "Regulation Designating Certain Land and Navigable Water Within or Adjacent to White River Migratory Waterfowl Refuge, Arkansas, as Closed Area Under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act", adopted by the Acting Secretary of Agriculture and approved by the President by Proclamation No. 2206 of October 14, 1936, is hereby amended to read as follows:
"I, H. A. Wallace, Secretary of Agriculture, by virtue of and pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), and in extension of Regulation 4 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act Regulations, do hereby designate as a closed area, in or on which hunting, taking, capturing, or killing, or attempting to hunt, take, capture, or kill, migratory birds is not permitted, all that area of land and navigable water in Monroe, Arkansas, Phillips, and Desha Counties, Arkansas, lying within the meander lines of the White River between its point of entry into Sec. 13, T. 3 S., R. 2 W., and the point where it leaves Sec. 29, T. 8 S., R. 1 W., Fifth Principal Meridian, and all lands and waters in Arkansas County, Arkansas, lying within the meander lines of La Grue Bayou between its point of entry into Sec. 19, T. 6 S., R. 1 W., and the point of its confluence with the White River in Sec. 7, T. 7 S., R. 1 W., Fifth Principal Meridian, and being within or adjacent to White River Migratory Waterfowl Refuge as established by Executive Order No. 7173, dated September 4, 1935"; and
 upon consideration it appears that the foregoing regulation will tend to effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918:
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendatory regulation of the Secretary of Agriculture.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of tiie United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 15th day of March in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL