Said Evans, "John Kasich has all the qualities and vision we need in the White House and unmatched experience in actually getting great things done for the American people. I worked closely with President Reagan and John has the same capacity to unite our party and compete in every state in November."
Evans served as RNC Co-Chair from 1971 to 1973 and represented Delaware in Congress from 1977 to 1983. A close advisor to President Reagan, Evans was chairman of the Reagan campaign's Congressional Steering Committee.
Said Ursomarso, "I am proud to endorse Gov. John Kasich for President and help spread his positive and optimistic message across Delaware. Like President Reagan, Gov. Kasich is a leader that we can trust to renew the American spirit and bring real solutions to Washington that will strengthen and grow our economy."
Frank Ursomarso, a resident of Wilmington, was appointed to serve as Director of the White House Office of Communications by President Reagan in 1981.
Said Fleming, "We have a strong team in Delaware that is energized and proud to stand behind Gov. John Kasich for President. He is a special, thoughtful and uniquely qualified candidate. His experience, judgment and pragmatic leadership are exactly what America needs in the White House."
Michael Fleming, a former senior aide to U.S. Senator Bill Roth, is a business executive and community leader in Wilmington.
Said Kasich, "I am grateful to have the support of so many conservative leaders in Delaware. Tom, Frank, Michael and the entire Delaware team will be a vital asset to our campaign as our momentum grows in the First State and throughout the east."
, former US Congressman and RNC Co-Chair


, former Communications Director for President Reagan


, State Chair Kasich for America


, former staff member, House Ways and Means Committee


, businessman, investor and son of former Gov. Pete du Pont


, former staff member, House Budget Committee


, businessman and former candidate for Lt. Governor


, businessman and former chair Associated Building Contractors


, businessman and community leader