Meet 8 incredible leaders.
With just a few days to go until the New Hampshire primary, Hillary has been hitting the campaign trail across the Granite State.
And yesterday, she brought a few of her friends along.
These aren't just any friends—they're some of the toughest, hardest-working, most effective leaders in America. They're helping to elect Hillary Clinton because she's a progressive who gets things done—and over the years, they've seen her fight for the values they share and deliver real results.
Left to right: Stephanie Schriock 
, Kirsten Gillibrand 
, Maggie Hassan 
, Amy Klobuchar 
, Debbie Stabenow 
, Hillary Clinton 
, Jeanne Shaheen 
, and Lilly Ledbetter 
.
President of EMILY's List—an organization dedicated to shattering glass ceilings at every level of politics. In high school, won an election for student body president by campaigning among underclassmen and earning a key endorsement from her male opponent's younger sister. She's been helping women (and a few men) run for office and win ever since.
Senator from New York. Senator Gillibrand succeeded Hillary Clinton in the U.S. Senate. Among other things—taking on the issue of sexual assault in the military and on college campuses, fighting for family friendly workplace policies, to name a few—she has worked hard to bring women "off the sidelines" and into the political process. 
Current governor of New Hampshire—and hopefully, next senator. As governor, she built a bipartisan consensus to balance the budget and extend health coverage to tens of thousands of people. Has a well deserved reputation for working hard and getting things done.
First woman senator from Minnesota. Straight-talker who is taking on the challenges that make the headlines and the ones that keep families up at night. When asked about the difference it makes to have more women in the Senate, she said: "Women tend to be problem solvers, we work together ... They didn't get there by swaggering around, they got there by getting things done."
Senator from Michigan. Currently doing everything she can to support the people of Flint and make sure that there is an appropriate response at all levels of government in the wake of this heartbreaking and unacceptable crisis. Fighting to create good paying jobs, expand access to health care, protect the environment, and more.
Former first lady of Arkansas, first lady of the United States, first woman senator from New York, Secretary of State, running for president to build a country and a world where everyone, everywhere can live up to their potential. Pantsuit expert. 
The only woman in American history—until Maggie Hassan—to be elected both governor and senator. A fierce and unapologetic champion for women's health and rights, including equal pay and Planned Parenthood.
Fighter for equal pay. 19 years after she started working for Goodyear, she received an anonymous note listing her salary and the salaries of three men with the same title—she was being paid less. Fought her case all the way to the Supreme Court, lost, and refused to give up. Instead, she worked with President Obama to help pass the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act so that no one would ever have to endure what she did. 