A very busy day with two incredible women
I love my job, because every day is different. As the digital director for Hillary Clinton's campaign in South Carolina, my job can mean a lot of different things—from creating and maintaining the campaign's online presence in the state to also spending my days on the trail, talking directly to voters, volunteers, and working with elected officials and celebrities who campaign for Hillary.
But this Wednesday was particularly special. At 6 a.m. I found myself climbing into my car to pick up Vivica A. Fox (!) for events across the state.

  These two lovely ladies are in SC campaigning for 
! 
 
 
 
— Jalisa Washington (@J_WashingtonSC) 


During the ride to our first stop of the day, Vivica and I discussed the reasons she's hitting the trail for Hillary. She talked about how important it is for us to protect all of the progress President Obama has made, especially with the Affordable Care Act and the president's work to reduce gun violence—because these issues disproportionately affect the African American community. She also shared how much she loves Hillary's 
, which allocates $25 billion specifically for 
.
She made it clear that she's ready to fight for Hillary, and I couldn't wait to see Vivica share her passion with the people of South Carolina.

  Thx 
 4 stopping 
 to talk 
 
 & 
 
 
— Fraendy Clervaud (@FraendyNewsman) 


During her interview, Vivica talked about her roles in the wildly successful television show, Empire, and the highly-anticipated movie, Independence Day: Resurgence—but she also shared the reason she came to Columbia.
?I am SO here to support Hillary Clinton,? she told Fraendy Clervaud on Good Day Columbia. 
?We have to keep things going forward. ? And I just feel that, with Secretary Clinton, we're going to keep going forward.?
She also urged people to make sure their voices are heard in this election.
?Make sure that you pay attention. Saturday, February 27 is the day to get out and vote. ? This election is so important, so make sure you go vote.?
Vivica then joined all of the hosts to wrap up the show, and one host asked her why she chose to spend her time campaigning for Hillary.
?Now you're a very busy lady,? the host said. ?So what made you decide, of all the things you have to do, that you had to get behind Hillary??
Before the host could get the whole question out, Vivica was answering.
?Because I care about my community, and I care about our country. ? People think that I'm out in Hollywood, and that I don't care about the community. I've always been y'all's favorite sister girl, who cares about the community. And so I'm making sure that they have to understand, especially Generation X, that their vote counts.? 
Meanwhile, Clay Middleton, the South Carolina state director, was spending the day with Angela Bassett. During Vivica's TV interview, I got this message from him.
Safe to say that Angela was having a pretty great time on the trail, too.
Angela and Vivica both had radio interviews scheduled, so we headed to WMFV 95.3, Columbia's Inspiration Station.

  Thx 2 
 4 coming by 2 hang out w/ us today, she'll be LIVE w/ 
 at 4:30pm! 
 
— WFMV 95.3 FM (@wfmv953) 


Clay texted to let me know how Angela's radio interview was going.
Clay and Angela met up with us at the South Carolina statehouse in Columbia, where both women met with local officials.

  You never know who you'll see at the State House...today the Senate got a visit from 
 & 
 
— Sen. Thomas McElveen (@ThomasMcElveen) 



  Had a blast @ the State House today 
 
 
 ! 
— Mia McLeod (@MiaforSC) 


Angela and Vivica talked with Democratic leaders about the importance of this election. Vivica told everyone that she knew how much of our progress was at stake, and she was there to help them make sure we keep a Democrat in the White House.

  Thanks to our special guest, 
 who's here campaigning for 
 
 
— SC House Democrats (@SCHouseDems) 


And when a group of General Assembly members held a press conference to endorse Hillary, Angela and Vivica stood alongside them, proudly declaring that they're on Team Hillary, too.
After that, we got back on the road. Vivica and I drove to Voorhees College, an HBCU in Denmark.
After the event, a few students came up to her and said "I'm going to vote now!" It was incredibly encouraging to see Vivica's message resonating with students. At the same time, Clay was with Angela at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg, where a HUGE crowd turned out.
Vivica and I headed to Denmark Tech, a two-year technical college, where she gave another great speech about all of the ways Hillary's policies will break down barriers for African Americans.
And after Angela finished rallying students at Claflin University in Orangeburg, Clay told me she got the chance to meet up with some of Delta sorors!
Then, without missing a beat, Vivica and I headed to the young professionals happy hour in Columbia, while Angela and Clay made their way to one in Charleston.
By the time we arrived at Kaminsky's, a bar in Columbia, Vivica was more enthusiastic than ever.
The bar was packed—there must have been at least 150 people there throughout the night. Vivica took photos with every single person who asked—but not before reminding them to make sure their voices are heard by heading to the polls on February 27 and supporting Hillary.

  I made a friend tonight! ???? 
 it was a pleasure! 
— Maxwell (@HauzOfMax) 



  Tonight, with the beautiful 
 chatting about why she supports Hillary Clinton! 
 ??'? 
— Beasy, Baybie. (@BeasyBaybie) 


Clay sent me updates throughout the night on the happy hour Angela was hosting in Charleston.
In the car on our way back to her hotel, all Vivica could talk about were the events she'd be doing the next day. I assumed she'd be exhausted—she'd had a crazy day on the trail! But she was totally ready to get back out there and keep fighting for Hillary.
?I was so moved by the students who came out and were engaged,? she said. ?It really means a lot to me that I'm taking part in electing Hillary Clinton.? She talked about how important HBCU organizing is to her, because she knows that Hillary will make sure all of the students she talked to will have a better life.
Vivica and I said our goodbyes for the night, after a long day on the road.
When I got home, Clay sent me this video of two little girls coming to say hi to Angela. One of them complimented her on her Hillary button—and Angela gave it to her. 


This entire day meant so much to me and the South Carolina team. Vivica A. Fox and Angela Bassett spent their time with us because they believe that Hillary Clinton will make it possible for everyone we met to live up to their God-given potential.

  GM! She's fabulous,smarter, and she is so ready 2 lead this country. 
 is my choice for president. 
 
 ;)— Vivica A. Fox (@MsVivicaFox) 



  Hey everybody, you good?After time on the road w/
, I can CONFIDENTLY say: 
 because she's with us! 
— Angela Bassett (@ImAngelaBassett) 

