 – After spending most of the campaign unable to explain his record of supporting amnesty for illegal immigrants, Marco Rubio has now simply resorted to calling anyone a "liar" who points out the truth. Today, the Cruz campaign responded to Rubio's repeated charges that Cruz "lied."
"Apparently, Marco Rubio can't handle the truth," said Communications Director Rick Tyler. "But the record is crystal clear and every word Ted Cruz said at the debate about Rubio's record is absolutely true."
At the South Carolina Debate, Ted Cruz correctly pointed out that Marco Rubio supported amnesty, in-state tuition for illegals, and refusing to end Obama's executive amnesty immediately:
CRUZ: 
Rubio responded that these and other accusations were lies:
RUBIO: 
But here are the facts.
: "DACA...applies to young people that arrived in this country at a very young age before they were adults and I don't think we can immediately revoke that... I'm not calling for it to be revoked tomorrow, or this week, or right away."
Rubio twice co-sponsored legislation granting in-state tuition to illegal-aliens. (2003 HB 119, 2004 HB 119)
: "[B]ack in 2003 and 2004, he was even more generous to undocumented immigrants. Rubio and Rivera co-sponsored legislation that would have allowed undocumented immigrants to pay in-state tuition in community colleges and state universities. Those who resided in the state and attended a Florida high school for three years prior to graduation would be able to pay in-state tuition, the legislation proposed, if the student pledged to file an application to be a U.S. permanent resident as soon as he or she is able to do so."
.
"Many of the Republican candidates on the debate stage Wednesday night joined in a full-throated endorsement of Ted Cruz's damn-the-torpedoes strategy to defund Planned Parenthood, even if it means shutting down the federal government.
"But two candidates who'll soon be casting votes on the matter were noticeably silent: Sens. Marco Rubio and Rand Paul...
"When it comes to the premier congressional debate over the next two weeks, Rubio (R-Fla.) and Paul (R-Ky.) are in danger of being overshadowed by the bawdy Cruz. The Texas senator making a direct play for tea party voters is all-in: Do whatever it takes to deny Planned Parenthood its federal funding, including shuttering the government if necessary."

Rubio (R-FL): Did Not Show Up

Cruz (R-TX), Nay

Rubio (R-FL): Did Not Show Up

Cruz (R-TX), Nay
Instead Marco Rubio voted for a drive-by "show vote" that had no hope of becoming law and gave up the leverage Republicans had to actually defund Planned Parenthood.
: "The Senate voted, 52 to 47, on Thursday night to repeal large portions of Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood. The repeal was wrapped inside a budget reconciliation bill that needed a simple majority of 51 senators to make good on a longstanding promise to voters that a GOP-led Congress would eliminate large portions of Obamacare... The reconciliation bill is under a veto threat from President Obama and is not likely to become law anytime soon."
, "While I disagree with this decision, we live in a republic and must abide by the law."
This prompted the 
 "We need bold leadership from the next President to fight back against an imperial judiciary," [NOM President Brian] Brown said in an email to Breitbart News. "Senator Rubio is merely giving lip service when he says he supports traditional marriage...Rubio and Bush, on the other hand, are simply caving. Period. Right now I can't see conservatives supporting either."