Today, the White House Rural Council convened to discuss a number of challenges facing rural America, including financial stress, mental health, and the opioid epidemic which has hit rural counties especially hard. The President dropped by the meeting to thank the Council for their work and to discuss how to better target federal resources to help these communities.
A photo from today's meeting can be found 
.
The President established the White House Rural Council by Executive Order in June 2011 to address challenges in rural America and to build on the Administration's rural economic strategy. Chaired by Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the Council aims to streamline and improve the effectiveness of federal programs serving rural America, engage stakeholders on issues important to rural communities, and to coordinate private sector partnerships to further job creation and economic development opportunities in rural areas.
The President recently charged the Council to lead an interagency effort focused on addressing some of the challenges affecting rural America, including heightened financial stress, increased substance abuse and overdose, and increased suicide rates. The President thanked Secretary Vilsack and Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell, and others across the federal government for their work in this effort and highlighted the Administration's $1.1 billion budget proposal announced yesterday to help ensure that all Americans who want treatment can get the care they need. The President's FY 2017 Budget takes a two-pronged approach to address this epidemic. First, it includes $1 billion in new mandatory funding over two years to expand access to treatment for prescription drug abuse and heroin use. This funding will boost efforts to help individuals with an opioid use disorder seek treatment, successfully complete treatment, and sustain recovery. This funding includes:
Second, the President's Budget includes approximately $500 million -- an increase of more than $90 million -- to continue and build on current efforts across the Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Health and Human Services (HHS) to expand state-level prescription drug overdose prevention strategies, increase the availability of medication-assisted treatment programs, improve access to the overdose-reversal drug naloxone, and support targeted enforcement activities. A portion of this funding is directed specifically to rural areas, where rates of overdose and opioid use are particularly high. To help further expand access to treatment, the Budget includes an HHS pilot project for nurse practitioners and physician assistants to prescribe buprenorphine for opioid use disorder treatment, where allowed by state law.