 section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (46 Stat. 696; U.S.C. title 19, sec. 1318) provides:
Whenever the President shall by proclamation declare an emergency to exist by reason ol a state of war, or otherwise, he may authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to extend during the continuance of such emergency the time herein prescribed for the performance of any act * * *;
 section 313(h) of the said act (46 Stat. 694; U.S.C. title 19, sec. 1313(h)) provides:
No drawback shall be allowed under the provisions of this section or of section 6 of the Act entitled "An Act temporarily to provide revenue for the Philippine Islands, and for other purposes," approved March 8, 1902 (relating to drawback on shipments to the Philippine Islands), unless the completed article is exported, or shipped to the Philippine Islands, within three years after importation of the imported merchandise.
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the foregoing provision of section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930, do by this proclamation declare an emergency to exist.
And I do hereby authorize the Secretary of the Treasury:
(1) in the case of articles manufactured or produced in the United States with the use of imported or substituted merchandise for drawback purposes where the imported merchandise involved was imported during the calendar year 1934, to extend the period for exportation, or shipment to the Philippine Islands, of the completed article for not more than one year from and after the expiration of the three-year period prescribed in the said section 313(h), as extended for one year under the authority of Proclamation No. 2215, dated December 29, 1936.
(2) in the case of articles manufactured or produced in the United States with the use of imported or substituted merchandise for drawback purposes where the imported merchandise involved was imported during the calendar year 1935, to extend the period for exportation, or shipment to the Philippine Islands, of the completed article for not more than one year from and after the expiration of the three-year period prescribed in the said section 313(h).
, That the extensions of one year herein authorized shall not apply in any case involving merchandise imported in 1934 where the one-year period of extension authorized in the said proclamation of December 29, 1936, has expired, or in any case involving merchandise imported in 1935 where the three-year period prescribed in the said section 313(h) has expired.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 29th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL