If you're with her, tweet about it!
After all the calls made, all the doors knocked, all the work of the past 10 months, it all comes down to this: Tonight, the first people in the nation will make their decisions in this presidential election.
I'm so proud of everything this campaign has built so far. I've never been prouder to stand up and let Hillary know I'm with her—and I hope you'll join me.
Here's how you can help keep the momentum up going into tonight's caucus:
Take a look at some of my favorites—and keep ?em coming!

  
 because there's no one more presidential, qualified, intelligent, hardworking, and more committed to the causes I care about.— Abigail Rose Solomon (@AbigailRSolomon) 



  
 
 
— Damon Bethea (@damonbethea1) 



  
 because she has stood for women's&family rights, children's rights, gay rights, worker's rights, and equal rights for everyone!— Meredith Lyons-Crews (@lyonscm) 



  Moving us forward and build on the progress that President Obama has made. If you want to call that Obama's 3rd term than 
— Lora (@ltrezil) 



  Hillary's first job after law school was w/ the Children's Defense Fund. 
 because 
 remains committed to our future.— Al Franken (@alfranken) 



  I hope that people going to 
 will 
 because I'm too young to vote and want a college plan that works. 
— Madison Kimrey (@madisworldofpie) 



  
 because she is a badass!— Allison Krieser (@allijan) 



  
 because 
— Denise Kupferschmidt (@dennerdenner) 



  ?Mom, I hope we get a woman President because we've had 44 men. Now it's time to have 44 women.? - Buck 
 
— Janet Petersen (@janet4iowa) 



  Excited to caucus tonight because 
 will fight everyday for LGBTQ youth 
 
 
— Nate Monson (@monsonnate) 



  
 because we need a president who says what she means and does what she says. Getting stuff done and making progress is ??"?— Sergio Uribe Henao (@sergioluribeh) 



  She's smart. She's qualified. And yeah, we love her pantsuits. Go to 
 to tell us 
 
— Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) 


The clock is ticking, so let Hillary know why you're glad to be in her corner—whether you're in Iowa or anywhere else—and let's get out there and do what it takes to bring home our first win.