 section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (46 Stat. 696; U.S.C. title 19,sec. 1318) provides:
Whenever the President shall by proclamation declare an emergency to exist by reason of a state of war, or otherwise, he may authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to extend during the continuance of such emergency the time herein prescribed for the performance of any act * * *;
 paragraph 1101 of the said act (46 Stat. 646; U.S.C. title 19, sec. 1001, par. 1101) provides that wools of certain kinds and hair of the camel
* * * may be imported under bond in an amount to be fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury and under such regulations as he shall prescribe; and if within three years from the date of Importation or withdrawal from bonded warehouse satisfactory proof is furnished that the wools or hair have been used in the manufacture of yarns which have been used in the manufacture of press cloth, camel's hair belting, rugs, carpets, or any other floor covering, or in the manufacture of knit or felt boots or heavy fulled lumbermen's socks, the duties shall be remitted or refunded * * *;
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the foregoing provision of section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930, do by this proclamation declare an emergency to exist.
And I do hereby authorize the Secretary of the Treasury, until further notice:
(1) in the case of wools or hair of the camel imported or withdrawn from bonded warehouse during the calendar year 1934, under bond, under the provisions of paragraph 1101 of the Tariff Act of 1930, to extend the period during which proof of use in manufacture may be furnished for not more than one year from and after the expiration of the three-year period prescribed in the said paragraph as extended for one year under the authority of Proclamation No. 2217, dated December 30, 1936.
(2) in the case of wools or hair of the camel imported or withdrawn from bonded warehouse during the calendar year 1935, under bond, under the provisions of paragraph 1101 of the Tariff Act of 1930, to extend the period during which proof of use in manufacture may be furnished for not more than one year from and after the expiration of the three-year period prescribed in the said paragraph.
, That in each and every case the Secretary of the Treasury shall require that the principal on the bond, in order to obtain the benefits under the extension granted, shall either furnish to the collector of customs for the district in which the bond was given the agreement of the sureties on such bond to remain bound under the terms and provisions of the bond to the same extent as if no extension were granted, or furnish an additional bond with acceptable sureties to cover the period of extension: 
, That the extensions of one year herein authorized shall not apply to any wools or hair of the camel imported or withdrawn from bonded warehouse under bond during the calendar year 1934 on which the one-year period of extension authorized in the aforesaid proclamation of December 30, 1936, has expired, or to any wools or hair of the camel imported or withdrawn from bonded warehouse under bond during the calendar year 1935 on which the three-year period prescribed in paragraph 1101 of the Tariff Act of 1930 has expired.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 29th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL