DES MOINES, Iowa — U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday returns to Iowa for a four-day swing. Sanders' seventeenth trip to the state since announcing his candidacy kicks off with a volunteer canvass launch in Davenport, followed by town meetings in Davenport, Clinton, Maquoketa, Decorah, Fayette, Independence, Cedar Falls, Iowa Falls, Ames, Newton, Grinnell and Des Moines. Sanders will discuss a wide range of issues, including his plan to make public colleges and universities tuition-free, the need to grow and strengthen America's middle class by taking on Wall Street and raising the minimum wage, ensuring universal healthcare for all and fighting against a corrupt political campaign finance system.
Here's the itinerary:


, Davenport Bernie 2016 HQ, 736 Federal St, #2101, Davenport

Information for the public: This event is open to volunteers canvassing for Bernie Sanders. Those interested in attending should call the Davenport Field Office to sign-up (563) 323-0559.


, Clinton Masonic Center, 416 South 1st St, Clinton

Information for the public: Doors open at 2:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.



Information for the public: This event will be livestreamed across the country. Click 
 to register.


, Centerstone Inn and Suites, 1910 Nairn Dr, Maquoketa

Information for the public: Doors open at 6 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Luther College, Regents Center, 700 College Dr, Decorah

Information for the public: Doors open at 11:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Upper Iowa University, Student Center, 605 Washington St, Fayette

Information for the public: Doors open at 2 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Heartland Acres Agribition Center, 2600 Swan Lake Blvd, Independence

Information for the public: Doors open at 4:30 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, University of Northern Iowa (West Gymnasium), Cedar Falls

Information for the public: Doors open at 7 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are strongly encouraged.


, Ellsworth Community College, Dale Howard Family Activity Center, 1021 River St, Iowa Falls

Information for the public: Doors open at 8:30 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Stephens Auditorium, Iowa State Center, 1900 Center Dr, Ames

Information for the public: Doors open at 11 a.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Bernie 2016 Field Office, 201 1st Ave. W, Newton

Information for the public: This event is invite only.

Press coverage will be pooled.


, Grinnell College, Charles Benson Bear Recreation and Athletics Center, 1201 10th Ave, Grinnell

Information for the public: Doors open at 4 p.m. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.


, Sheslow Auditorium, Drake University


, 125 NE Broadway Ave, Des Moines Information for the public: This event is invite only.


g, Music Man Square, 308 S Pennsylvania Ave, Mason City

Information for the public: Doors open at noon. This event is free and open to the public, but 
 are strongly encouraged.