 section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (46 Stat. 696; U.S.C., title 19, sec. 1318) provides:
Whenever the President shall by proclamation declare an emergency to exist by reason of a state of war, or otherwise, he may authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to extend during the continuance of such emergency the time herein prescribed for the performance of any act * * *:
 subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1606 of section 201 of the said act (46 Stat. 673; U.S.C., title 19, sec. 1201, par. 1606) provides:
Horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, and other domestic animals straying across the boundary line into any foreign country, or driven across such boundary line by the owner for temporary pasturage purposes only, together with their offspring, shall be dutiable unless brought back to the United States within eight months, in which case they shall be free of duty, under regulations to be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury.
, President of the United States of America, acting under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by the foregoing provision of section 318 of the Tariff Act of 1930, do by this proclamation declare an emergency to exist.
And I do hereby authorize the Secretary of the Treasury, under such regulations as he may prescribe, to extend the time in which horses, mules, asses, cattle, sheep, and other domestic animals, straying across the boundary line into any foreign country, or driven across such boundary line by the owner for temporary pasturage purposes only, together with their offspring, may be brought back into the United States free of duty, from eight months, as provided in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1606 of the said act, to twelve months, if such animals are brought back on or before June 30, 1938.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 6th day of December in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL