This morning, Governor Bush rolled out his 
 which aims to give access to a quality education to every child, an issue he strongly believes is the civil rights challenge of our time. This afternoon, the campaign is announcing the initial members of the African-Americans for Jeb National Steering Committee, a group that will help promote Jeb's message of expanding education opportunity and economic empowerment across the nation.
"I am impressed by Gov. Jeb Bush's record expanding school choice, college access and affordability, and his support for African-American entrepreneurs and businesses. Jeb understands that education and economic empowerment are the civil rights issues of our time. As we reflect, today, on Dr. King's legacy and the work left to achieve his Dream, Republicans should look to a leader who's been both consistently conservative as well as inclusive, building bridges, and growing the tent of our party," 

In a new video, Jeb discusses Dr. Martin Luther King's vision based on equality of opportunity, and speaks about how we need to ensure children in poverty get access to a quality education that will prepare them for a lifetime of success.

"America is in vital need of leadership, not entertainment or colorful rhetoric. Real leadership. We need leadership that will stand for liberty and justice for all. Leadership that will expand opportunity for all. Leadership that will pave the way for every child, no matter their race or zip code, to receive a quality education. We need a leader who will ensure quality care for our veterans and secure the borders of our nation. We need a leader who will remind us that diversity is our greatest asset in America. I choose to support Gov. Jeb Bush for he is America's best hope for change," 
"I have known Jeb Bush for 21 years. Thanks to Jeb's leadership, low-income and African-American students in Florida made among the biggest gains of any state in the nation. I know first-hand that Jeb has a heart for people; and he cares. Jeb has demonstrated a lifelong commitment to closing racial disparities in education and employment, and expanding opportunity for all," 
 Former Florida Secretary of Health, Assistant Secretary for Health and Human Services, Retired Rear Admiral in the Public Health Service Corps


 President of Parents for Educational Freedom


 Deputy State Chairwoman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party and Businesswoman


 Clerk, Shelby County, TN


 Senior Vice President, Smith & Co.


 Partner at Wilmer Hale, Former Deputy General Counsel to Governor Bush


 Valdosta State University, Mission:Next Campus Leader


 Consultant, Byrds Eye LLC


 Former Chair, Florida Public Service Commission


 President, Central Florida Haitian Educators Association


 Director, NCWorks Career Pathways


 Former Director of the US Office of Management and Budget


 former Director of Community Engagement, Foundation for Excellence in Education


 DuPage Airport Authority


 former White House aide, President George W. Bush


 CEO, Miami Urban League


 Director of Development and Public Relations, I Know I Can, Columbus, OH


 Life International Church


 Former Aide to Senators Mel Martinez and George LeMieux


 Former Member of Congress, CT


 Chairman, National Family Engagement Alliance


 Managing Director, Guggenheim Partners, Former Deputy Chief of Staff, President George W Bush


 Vice President, Republica


 Former Palm Beach County School Board Member


 Former Florida Lottery Secretary


 Former Chairman, Shelby County Commission, TN


 Ebony Contributor, Chair of the Republican Diversity Coalition


 Executive Assistant, Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services


 Vice President, Net Communications


 Bethel Missionary Baptist Church


 President, Morehouse College Republicans


 Co-Founder, 


 President, Net Communications, Former Chair of the Florida Internet Taskforce, Former Chair of Florida Public Service Commission


 Program Coordinator, "Dress for Success" Walmart Going Places Program


 Chairman and CEO, Mansa Capital


 President and CEO, Community Synergy Group


 Chairman, Partners Energy North America


 Former COO, Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority


 Florida First District Court of Appeals


 VP Public Affairs, Johnson & Blanton
 Florida A&M, Mission: Next Campus Leader


 CEO, George Bush Presidential Library Foundation, Former Assistant to President George H.W. Bush and Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan


 Former Florida Secretary, Agency for Health Care Administration, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Community Health


 Helen Hayes nominee, singer & actress


 President, the DeSoto Group


 President and CEO, The Cascon Group


 Retired Postmaster and Decorated Vietnam Veteran


 Former Director of the Office of Supplier Diversity, State of Florida


 CEO and Founder, Memphis Entrepreneurship Academy


 South Carolina State Representative; Pastor, Voice of the Lord International Ministries, Columbia SC


 Former Executive Director, Palm Beach County Republican Party


 Mount Calvary Baptist Church, Easley SC


 Georgia Young Republicans, Mission: Next Campus Leader


 Prince William County Republican Party Executive Committee


 University of Miami Hall of Fame (Football), 11 year veteran of NFL


 Founder and President, The Sharpton Group, Former Chairman of the Miami-Dade Expressway Authority


 Former Chairman, DC Young Republicans


 Consultant for the Yes4Marriage Campaign in 2008


 Pro Football Hall of Fame, Pittsburgh Steers


 Former Florida Lottery Secretary


 Former Charleston, SC Councilman


 Consultant, The Politics Store


 Board of Trustees, DuPage County, IL


 In the Word International, Jacksonville, FL


 Former Deputy Secretary, Florida Department of Juvenile Justice