Everyone running for president should be talking about this.
Hillary Clinton has always fought to fix the problems that keep families up at night—and for millions of families, autism is a major issue in their lives.
That's why Hillary just announced a broad plan to help people of all ages and their families who are impacted by autism. 
Here's what it will do:

Diagnosis is the first step in helping people with autism. Yet, studies show that in many children, especially girls and African American and Latino children, early signs of autism go overlooked for months or even years. Hillary's plan will boost early screening rates so that kids can get diagnosed and receive the services that will make a difference in their lives.

When autism services aren't covered by insurance, many families can't afford them. The Affordable Care Act has gone a long way to help those with autism get the support they need—by making it illegal for insurance companies to deny coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, ending lifetime dollar limits on benefits, and allowing young adults to remain on their parents' coverage until the age of 26.

We need to invest in more research to better understand autism, create better diagnostic tools, and improve treatments and services for people on the autism spectrum. Hillary will significantly increase funding for autism-related research and call for the first-ever study of the prevalence of adult autism.

People with autism are unemployed at a much higher rate: More than half of youth with autism are not getting a job or pursuing higher education in the two years after they graduate high school. Hillary's plan will work to close the employment gap by launching a new Autism Works Initiative that will include a post-graduation transition plan for every student with autism, along with a public-private partnership to connect people with autism to employment opportunities.

  Thank you 
 for your new autism initiative for our little heroes!



 
— Jenn Medvin (@AlDenteGuida) 



  My vote is undecided. But as a parent to a child with autism, it feels like Hillary Clinton just reached out to me & held my hand.— Nish Weiseth (@NishWeiseth) 



  Spoken to 
 about my 2 girls, one with autism, and the need for therapy and supports for families like ours. TY for listening!— Tere Ramos (@SpedAdvocates) 



  
 thank you for thinking of all the children and adults with autism. I worry everyday about my daughter. 
— Whatsmyname? (@tamromo) 



  
 Just read Hillary Clinton announces plans to help people with autism access services, independence. Just won me over.— Barry Hughes (@Thebarryhughes) 

