



Today, the Marco Rubio for President campaign announced Iowans from the Southeast part of the state that will be serving as county leaders helping to share Marco's message and caucusing for him on February 1.

The announcement today comes as Marco's momentum in the Hawkeye state continues to grow. With three weeks until the caucuses, Marco's message is resonating with voters at the right time. It is a message that will allow Marco to compete in all of Iowa's 99 counties.

"Marco Rubio's national security experience makes him the right choice for Southeast Iowa," said State Rep. Bobby Kaufmann. "He was ahead of the curve in calling for stronger policies to combat ISIS and all forms of terrorism around the globe. In these dangerous times we need Marco Rubio's proven judgment in the White House."

"I endorse Marco Rubio because I want a president who understands the challenges facing Iowa families," said Alan Ostergren, President of Iowa County Attorneys Association. "Marco's humble roots help him connect with voters; particularly those who are struggling to get ahead in this economy. Marco Rubio knows we need new leadership, new ideas, and less power in Washington if we want to get this country back on track."



Richard Keilig, Appanoose
Bobby Kaufmann, Cedar
Shirley Geadelmann, Cedar
Douglas Reasner, Cedar
Bob Carlson, Clinton
Delorris Lanman, Davis
Merlin Vanzee, Des Moines
Susan Hart, Des Moines
Joanie Juvinall, Des Moines
George Juvinal, Des Moines
J. David Missavage, Des Moines
Carolyn Erts, Des Moines
Keith Erts, Des Moines
Paul Dennison, Henry
David Glavin, Henry
Carol Messer, Henry
Alice Walker, Iowa
Meaghan Alvarez, Jefferson
Carissa Kaut, Johnson
Lyndsie Schnoor, Johnson
Meaghan O'Brien, Johnson
Taylor Parker, Johnson
Luke Recker, Johnson
Randall Jones, Johnson
Gina Jochimsen, Johnson
Janelle Smithson, Johnson
Matt Judge, Johnson
Lexi Wyrick, Johnson
Dianee Conrad, Keokuk
Dave Bohenkamp, Lee
Denise Trejo, Lee
Eric Schultz, Louisa
Emery Songer, Mahaska
Vaugh Faber, Monroe
Kenneth Irwin, Muscatine
Mark Lerette, Muscatine
Alan Ostergren, Muscatine
Michelle Hutton, Muscatine
Robert Estabrook, Muscatine
Scott Natvig, Muscatine
Mike Miller, Muscatine
Tammy Kriegel, Poweshiek
Annie Jensen, Poweshiek
Todd Ashby, Scott
Jim Tansey, Scott
Jeff Heur, Scott
Wilda Smith, Scott
Kenny Guy, Scott
Tom Bush, Scott
Don Blough, Scott
Pete Bush, Scott
Scott Webster, Scott
Jessi Wilson, Van Buren
Nancy Menke, Wapello
Terri Ohara, Wapello