Our country is in the midst of a massive heroin epidemic, compounded by sharp increases in the abuse of prescription painkillers. Currently, this "opioid" abuse crisis is affecting some regions of the country more than others, but the problem is spreading, particularly in less populated areas of the country. Heroin use has doubled in just the last 10 years, and deaths related to heroin have nearly quadrupled to 8,257 last year. In 2014, more Americans died from drug overdoses than during any other year on record.
Huge increases in the availability of cheap, highly potent heroin, with Mexican drug cartels involved in the production, trafficking, and distribution of heroin and other illicit drugs is contributing significantly to this problem. The Mexican cartels have dramatically increased their production of heroin. Most heroin available in the United States is smuggled across the border by the Mexican cartels. A cousin of Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman, the fugitive head of the Sinaloa cartel, was recently convicted in New Hampshire on federal drug trafficking charges. While the conviction was related to cocaine, it illustrates the reach of the Mexican cartels, which have distribution networks throughout the United States.
Beyond the Mexican cartels, abuse of prescription painkillers, such as hydrocodone and oxycodone, is a contributing cause of the epidemic of heroin and fentanyl abuse, and a major concern in its own right. A staggering four in 10 Americans know someone who has been addicted to prescription painkillers. In 2012, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) found that more than two million Americans were abusing prescription opioid painkillers. Deaths in the United States due to prescription opioid painkillers have more than tripled over the last 15 years. Half of the young people addicted to heroin started with a prescription painkiller. Four out of five heroin users previously used a prescription painkiller for non-medical reasons. The epidemic affects both genders, persons of all races, all ages and all income levels.
While the heroin/prescription pain killer crisis is nationwide, New Hampshire is one of its epicenters. There were more than 300 drug overdose deaths in New Hampshire in 2014, with 99 of those deaths related to heroin (compared to 12 murders in the state). In one New Hampshire city, first responders treated individuals ranging from age 16 to age 69. The anguish and suffering for New Hampshire families is at an all-time high.
In 2010, the Obama Administration articulated a strategy from the Office of the National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) with seven goals for reducing illicit drug use. In a progress report this year, ONDCP noted that the federal government spends more than $26.3 billion on drug control programs annually. The Government Accountability Office (GAO), an independent government watchdog tracking progress towards these goals, recently testified before Congress that the Obama Administration had made progress toward just one of these goals over the last five years, while "none of the goals in the Strategy have been fully achieved." Meanwhile, prescription drug abuse and heroin-related deaths have skyrocketed. The Obama "strategy" has been a failure.
Of its total drug control program spending, the federal government invests nearly $12 billion a year on drug abuse prevention and treatment, but these efforts are divided among more than 76 programs in 15 different federal agencies. According to one study, at least 40 percent of these programs are not coordinating with other federal programs, leading to duplication and inefficiency in the fight against illicit drug abuse.
Of the $12 billion spent on prevention and treatment, Medicare/Medicaid and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) invest the most. SAMHSA spends $2.2 billion out of its $3.4 billion total budget on substance abuse prevention and treatment. And despite all of this spending, 24 million Americans now use illicit drugs, an increase from 6.7 percent in 1990 to 9.2 percent in 2012.
Congress has focused on increased funding for current efforts to fight the epidemic. The omnibus spending bill recently passed by Congress includes more than $100 million in additional funding to fight the opioid epidemic. These funds will strengthen drug control efforts through the Drug Enforcement Agency, the CDC, substance abuse treatment programs and drug courts. While this funding is an important step, real change must include reforms to ensure we do not just add more money to reinforce the failure of the status quo.
Some government leaders label the drug epidemic just a criminal justice issue, and some try to make it just a health care issue. Both approaches oversimplify this complex challenge. The demand for abused and illicit drugs must be addressed in tandem with arresting the supply of these drugs. Governor Jeb Bush believes we need a strategy that:






Heroin and opiate-based pain pills are interrelated, and it is imperative to reduce both the demand and supply if treatment and recovery programs are going to work. Presidential leadership is essential if the country is going to dramatically reduce drug abuse. As Governor, Jeb Bush used a combination of strategies to help reduce heroin use in Florida by approximately 50 percent among youth. As President, Jeb Bush will re-elevate the Director of the Office of the National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to a cabinet-level job and empower the ONDCP Director to coordinate the multi-disciplinary components of a national drug control strategy. The Director will evaluate and streamline current efforts, coordinate activities across the federal government, collaborate with the states and measure progress toward clearly defined goals.
Because prescription painkiller abuse is closely related to heroin use, treatment and recovery efforts should address both epidemics.
Drug abuse and addiction hurts Americans from all walks of life. It is a complex problem that requires a multi-disciplinary, multi-faceted solution. Existing federal efforts must be better coordinated, streamlined and monitored for results. This will take real leadership that makes solving the problem a top priority. We know how to make a difference in this fight, and with the right leadership and solutions, we will.