Monday, January 4, 2016
 - As Governor Christie kicked off 2016 in New Hampshire with a four day visit throughout the state, former New Hampshire Senate President Peter Bragdon led a group of twenty elected officials, former elected officials, veterans, small business owners and party activists in announcing their endorsement of Governor Chris Christie for President.
"Governor Christie demonstrated his strong leadership abilities when he worked with leaders of both parties in his state to achieve historic public employee pension reform and close a $13 billion budget deficit left by his predecessor," said Bragdon. "As US attorney, he led the prosecution of terrorists who were attempting to attack a military base in New Jersey. Governor Christie has the unique executive experience of leading through crisis, bringing people together, and solving complex problems that we need in the White House."
"In a dangerous world, America needs a president with Governor Christie's experience confronting the threat we face from terrorists who are determined to attack our country," said US Navy veteran Alissa Tweedie, a former member of Governor Pataki's New Hampshire Steering Committee. "Like Governor Pataki, Governor Christie understands that the first priority of our government is to keep the American people safe. As a former US Attorney, Governor Christie worked with the FBI and Department of Homeland Security to investigate terrorist threats in the aftermath of September 11, 2001. We need a president who has the national security experience to protect our homeland and lead our allies in the global fight against terrorism. Governor Christie is exactly the person to do that."
"Governor Christie has spent more time in New Hampshire holding town hall meetings and talking with Granite Staters than any other candidate for president," added Nashua small businesswoman Lori Lambert. "Governor Christie respects our tradition as the First In The Nation primary state, which is why he has worked hard to meet voters in restaurants, diners, bars and VFW halls in all ten counties across our state. He 'tells it like it is' in his two-hour-long public town hall meetings, where he takes questions directly from the audience and spends time meeting everyone one-on-one. Governor Christie is straightforward and direct about what he believes and why he believes it, and we need a president who can lead the American people with clarity and resolve."
The twenty New Hampshire leaders endorsing Governor Christie today are: