While the Republican Party continues to demonize millions of hardworking immigrants, Hillary Clinton spoke passionately about 
 to the National Immigrant Integration Conference.
She proudly highlighted our nation's immigrant heritage, and laid out her commitment to pass comprehensive immigration reform for those who come in search of a better life for themselves and their families. And she didn't mince words when calling out offensive Republican rhetoric.?
Here are the key takeaways from Hillary's speech. ?

  " We are a country where people of all backgrounds, all nations of origin, all languages, all religions, all races, can make a home. America was built by immigrants."
Unlike the Republicans, Hillary will defend DACA and DAPA, President Obama's executive actions that protect law-abiding immigrants from deportation, and she'll go a step further and put in place a system for the parents of DREAMers and others to be considered for deferred action as well.?

  " I'll work to ensure that every single refugee who seeks asylum in the United States has a fair chance to tell his or her story. This is the least we can offer people fleeing persecution and devastation."
Applying for citizenship can be a lengthy process that often involves significant fees and Hillary's plan provides for more fee-waivers to alleviate some of the burden. She will also increase access to language and outreach programs so more eligible immigrants can get through the naturalization process.?
There are alternatives to detention for those who pose no flight or public safety risk, such as supervised release, that have proved effective and cost a fraction of what it takes to keep families in detention. Hillary will also end private immigrant detention centers.?
Comprehensive immigration reform could "add hundreds of billions of dollars to our GDP."

  " [W]e all owe a debt of gratitude to the millions of immigrants who have helped to make America the greatest country in the world. You see I disagree with those who say, 'Make America great.' We are great, and we're going to stay great, and we're going to get greater."