
Monday, December 21, 2015
 - Today, Chris Christie announced the support of 73 Grassroots Leaders across the state who will continue to help spread Governor Christie's message leading up to the Caucuses in February. These statewide leaders will represent the Governor in their precincts and include former Walker supporter Ron Wheeler, Former Clarke county GOP Chair and Branstad-Reynolds Inaugural Committee member Mary Ellen Kimball and her husband Dr. Jim Kimball, as well as former Poweshiek County GOP Chair Rick Jacoby.
"We will be supporting Governor Christie at the February caucus because we believe he is the best candidate to protect America and provide the leadership we so desperately need," said Dr. Jim and Mary Ellen Kimball.
"Governor Christie's unique background as both a Governor of a large state and former federal prosecutor has prepared him well to deal with the critical threats our nation faces today," added Mr. Wheeler. "The Governor is mature, tested, and ready to deal with the biggest problems on day one in the Oval Office and I'm proud to be supporting him for President of the United States."
"The serious times our country finds itself in demand a leader and President who has faced challenges and prevailed, enforced our laws against those who mean to do us harm, and taken meaningful action to protect our country's national security," said Mr. Jacoby. "Governor Chris Christie has done all that and more, and he is the leader our nation needs right now. He is not afraid to stand and fight for our conservative principles and that is why I will be caucusing for Chris Christie on February 1st, and I would urge Republicans in Poweshiek County and around Iowa to do the same."
"I'm so incredibly appreciative of the support from the leaders all across the state of Iowa," said Governor Christie. "As we continue to build momentum heading into the February Caucuses, these individuals will be important voices in their communities sharing our message."
These grassroots leaders include: