 certain government-owned lands known as Fort Wood and situated on Bedloe's Island in the harbor of New York, New York, are contiguous to the Statue of Liberty National Monument, established by Proclamation of October 15, 1924 (43 Stat. 1968), and are necessary for the proper care, management, and protection of the colossal statue of "Liberty Enlightening the World"; and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to add such lands to the Statue of Liberty National Monument;
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906, ch. 3060, 34 Stat. 225 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 431), do proclaim that the following-described lands in New York are hereby added to and made a part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument:
All lands on Bedloe's Island, New York, not now a part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument, including all uplands and marginal submerged lands and such wharves, warehouses, and other lands as comprised Fort Wood prior to evacuation thereof as a military reservation.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of this monument as enlarged hereby as provided in the Act of Congress entitled "An Act To establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916 (ch. 408, 39 Stat. 535, U.S.C., title 16, secs. 1 and 2), and acts supplementary thereto or amendatory thereof:
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 7th day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-second.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL