



He laid out the importance of the intelligence community's 
 that Senator Cruz voted to dramatically curtail just this year, and made it clear that he wouldn't be content to work alongside anti-American dictators.




Rubio outdid Cruz in the early rounds . . . What I found most interesting, though, is that Rubio came under sustained assault from Cruz and Paul and did not lose his cool.
That was good. Rubio won first round.

— Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) 
Yes. 


— Jon Ralston (@RalstonReports) 
"I thought that Rubio bested Cruz throughout the entire debate," [Kim Bacchus, president of Washoe Republican Women] said. "I don't think Cruz came across as strongly as he needed to to justify his second place position in Iowa."
The debate was defined by several substantial and intense exchanges between Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz. I'd score it for Rubio on points, but it was close and both senators are obviously exceptionally skilled. I think Rubio had the better of the argument on the NSA on the merits and on the question of whether or not ISIS can be defeated from the air (it can't).
I think Rubio is right on the merits and his view is probably more in line with where Republican primary voters are, particularly given the rising anxiety about terrorism after the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino. I'd give the exchange to Rubio on points.
Perhaps the most revealing exchange came on the powers of the National Security Agency, where Senator 
 and Ohio Governor John Kasich in particular squared off against 
 and 
. Messrs. Paul and Cruz were among the few Senate Republicans to vote for the USA Freedom Act this summer that barred the bulk collection of telephone records.

Mr. Rubio has been hitting Mr. Cruz's vote on the campaign trail, and he rightly pointed out that "now the intelligence agency is not able to quickly gather records and look at them to see who these terrorists are calling. And the terrorist that attacked us in San Bernardino was an American citizen, born and raised in this country. And I bet you we wish we would have had access to five years of his records so we could see who he was working with."
Cruz misleads on his position on immigrant legalization. Tried to strike path to citizenship, but not legalization. 


— Brit Hume (@brithume) 
Ted Cruz says he does not "intend" to support legalization — a giant escape hatch if he needs it

— Sam Stein (@samsteinhp) 
Marco Rubio has the only coherent geopolitical narrative on this stage.

— Tim Fernholz (@TimFernholz) 
.
 doing a good job explaining the need for a stronger military. 
 


— Jim Talent (@JimTalent) 
Excellent, realistic view of the Mid East. Did his homework. 
 


— Lisa Daftari (@LisaDaftari) 
Once again Rubio shows he gets foreign policy and the internal dynamics of the Arab Middle East.

— Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) 
The Rubio answer on Iran, Syria and ISIS — w/a brief history of the fight — was the best single answer of the debate thus far. 


— Stephen Hayes (@stephenfhayes) 


Marco Rubio showed once again that among Republicans, he may be the most gifted communicator of his generation. He currently occupies the sweet spot that WFB defined: most electable conservative.
The debate ended 11 hours ago and Marco Rubio is already on the trail in Iowa 


— Ben Jacobs (@Bencjacobs) 