Here's what you need to know.
While Republicans are attempting to roll back LGBT rights, Hillary's moving forward—because even though marriage equality is now the law of the land, we still have a lot of work to do to ensure that all LGBT Americans are treated equally under the law.
Hillary has a plan to strengthen LGBT rights as president. Here's what she'll do, and why it matters.
Hillary has called on Congress to pass the Equality Act, and also supports efforts underway in the courts and in the federal government to clarify that discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation is a form of illegal sex discrimination. She will not stop fighting until we secure full equality for LGBT Americans.
—
Hillary will support efforts in Congress and the states to end conversion therapy for minors.
This year, at least 22 transgender women—primarily, women of color—have been murdered. And that doesn't take into account the violence that goes unreported or ignored. People should not have to live in fear because of who they are.?Hillary will work with the Department of Justice and the FBI to gather better data on these hate crimes, so that we have more information about this violence—and can put a stop to it.
This is not only unfair to would-be parents, but also hurts the hundreds of thousands of children in foster care, who are ready to become part of loving families.?Hillary will urge Congress to pass the Every Child Deserves a Family Act, a law that would prohibit federally funded child welfare agencies from discriminating against potential foster or adoptive families because of sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status.
?
Hillary will make sure that at-risk communities—including transgender individuals and black men who have sex with men (MSM)—have access to PrEP, by increasing the government's investment in building awareness of and access to the drug.
A disproportionate number of homeless youth are LGBT, and many of them feel like they don't have anywhere to turn. Hillary will work with Congress to to ensure adequate funding—and safe, welcoming shelter—for homeless youth.
Republican presidential candidates seem determined to undo the progress our nation has made. Every top-tier Republican presidential candidate opposes marriage equality—and Marco Rubio has even suggested he would appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn it. They've gone on the record against anti-discrimination protections for the LGBT community, and some even oppose LGBT couples adopting.
 to read Hillary's full plan.?