No two days are ever the same—but all of them are jam-packed.
As a campaign video producer, I've been filming Hillary all over the country for more than three months.?In that time I've learned two things:
1) Any place with a door can double as an office; and

2) Just when exhaustion starts to set in, you'll inevitably meet someone whose story will reenergize you.
Hillary talks to hundreds of new people each day at rallies, along rope lines, in coffee shops, and in town halls. And it's remarkable to watch her listen, take in what they have to say, and think about what she can do to improve their lives.
 Wake up in Omaha, NE. (Although it's a solid minute or two before I remember what city we're in and what day it was.)
 Brief lesson in ironing from Barbara Kinney, campaign photographer and my roommate on the road.
 Wrangle my gear together. Somehow, grabbing fully charged batteries has a recharging effect on me, too.
 The traveling team departs the hotel for the day—but not before Hillary's had a chance to chat with the wonderful Hilton staff!
 Hillary calls into a morning radio show from the "Scooby Van." (Like I said, anything with a door can double as an office.) This is already her second interview of the day.
 Before kicking into high gear for the day, Hillary needs her iced tea fix. No ice to be found—so room temperature tea it is! ?
 Hillary is getting ready to give remarks on the economy. She's joined by a longtime friend who knows a thing or two about the subject.
 I hitch a ride with Warren and Susie Buffett to the next event. They tell me how excited they are to be campaigning for Hillary today—and can't imagine how she keeps up with such a demanding schedule. As we pull into the venue, Susie tells me to get ready for a "funky little place." Bring on the funk!
More than 900 people pack the old gymnastics gym in Omaha, NE for Hillary's remarks. Nebraska is excited to see Hillary. At one point, she says "I need your help!" and someone in the crowd yells back "You got it!" I always knew I liked the Midwest.
After the speech, Hillary greets a fired-up line of supporters, including a high school student who hands her something special—a book of poetry he wrote about the neglect and abandonment he faced as a child. She is honored to take the book and promises to read it.
 Arrive at the airport. Next stop: Iowa City.
 Arrive in Iowa City. Our first order of business is a special surprise for Iowa State Director Matt Paul! We tell him Hillary wants to have a "serious chat." But it's actually just a decoy for a birthday celebration, complete with what Hillary calls "a good old fashioned sheet cake." (As you can see, Matt promptly takes a bite out of it.)
 We depart the Iowa City town hall—and on the way out encounter a group of University of Iowa students with a life-size cutout of Hillary. Photos ensue.
 Arrive in Mason City for a TV interview. Hillary points out that the taping room would be a great place to throw a party. I don't disagree.
Hillary meets three new Iowa caucus volunteer leaders who will accompany her on stage. She is VERY excited to have their help!
 Final question of the day comes from a young woman in the crowd: "After 8 years of a Clinton presidency, what is your vision for America in 2024?" You know what they say... save the best for last.