WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the President will award the National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology and Innovation in the East Room of the White House. The Medals presented to 17 individuals are the highest honors bestowed by the United States government on scientists, engineers, and inventors.

"These scientific laureates exemplify the American spirit and ingenuity that have enriched our society and the global community in profound and lasting ways," President Barack Obama said. "Their ambition and accomplishments are an inspiration to the next generation pursuing careers in the essential fields of science, technology, engineering, and math."

The National Medal of Science was created by statute in 1959 and is administered for the White House by the National Science Foundation. Awarded annually, the Medal recognizes individuals who have made outstanding contributions to science and engineering. The President receives nominations from a committee of Presidential appointees based on their extraordinary knowledge in and contributions to chemistry, engineering, computing, mathematics, and the biological, behavioral/social, and physical sciences.

The National Medal of Technology and Innovation was created by statute in 1980 and is administered for the White House by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Patent and Trademark Office. The award recognizes those who have made lasting contributions to America's competitiveness, quality of life, and helped strengthen the Nation's technological workforce. A distinguished independent committee representing the private and public sectors submits recommendations for the award to the President.



Dr. Armand Paul Alivisatos, University of California, Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, CA



Dr. Michael Artin, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, MA



Dr. Albert Bandura, Stanford University, CA



Dr. Stanley Falkow, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA



Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, NY



Dr. Rakesh K. Jain, Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital, MA



Dr. Mary-Claire King, University of Washington, WA



Dr. Simon Levin, Princeton University, NJ



Dr. Geraldine Richmond, University of Oregon, OR





Dr. Joseph DeSimone, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina State University, and Carbon3D, CA



Dr. Robert Fischell, University of Maryland, College Park, MD



Dr. Arthur Gossard, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA



Dr. Nancy Ho, Green Tech America, Inc. and Purdue University, IN



Dr. Chenming Hu, University of California, Berkeley, CA



Dr. Mark Humayun, University of Southern California, CA



Dr. Cato T. Laurencin, University of Connecticut, CT



Dr. Jonathan Rothberg, 4catalyzer Corporation and Yale School of Medicine, CT
