We are democrats, republicans and independents. But we are Americans first.
As we all know, this has been an odd election season, with campaigning built around bullying and insults rather than substantive issues. While this circus unfolds, real issues that affect each of us and our businesses are not getting the attention they need. If ever there was a time for a serious, thoughtful presidential process, it is now, and yet it isn't happening.
After watching the March 3rd Republican debate it is clear that 
.
We love Ohio and are grateful for all that Governor Kasich has done to lift up our state and our people. If you have supported John Kasich already, now is the time to consider doubling down on your financial support and advocacy. If you have yet to commit, the time to choose is quickly coming to a close. If not John Kasich, who? If not now, when?
Governor Kasich must win Ohio next Tuesday. Join us now to make this happen.
, community volunteer


, Chairman, MURA Holdings, LLC


, Chairman, President and CEO, American Electric Power


, healthcare executive


, President and CEO, OhioHealth


, Ernst & Young (retired Vice Chairman)


 President and CEO, Fifth Third Bank


, Chairman, Castellini Company and Owner/CEO, Cincinnati Reds


, healthcare executive


, Chairman, President and CEO, Medical Mutual of Ohio


, healthcare executive


, Chairman and CEO, Cox Financial


, President and CEO, Crane Group


, President, InnoSource


, CEO – Ohio, United Health


 Chief Executive Officer, Cintas


, President and CEO, Safelite Group/Safelite Auto Glass


, healthcare executive


 Partner, Gross Builders


, Chairman and CEO, Scotts Miracle-Gro


, Chairman, President and CEO, Lubrizol Corporation


, President and CEO, NiSource


, Jack Hanna's Into the Wild


, Co-Owner, Cleveland Browns


, Co-Owner, Cleveland Browns


, Chairman, President and CEO, Marathon Petroleum


, President – Ohio, Anthem


, President and CEO, Hoover Milstein


, Moreland Management Company


, Chairman and CEO, Summitville Tiles, Inc.


, President and CEO, FirstEnergy


, Owner, AJ Automotive Group


, Chairman, New Albany Company


, Chairman, RIK Enterprises


, professional services executive


, Founder, The Malrite Company


, Chairman, President and CEO, Lincoln Electric


, professional services executive


, Chairman and CEO, Worthington Industries


, professional services executive


, Co-Chairman Emeritus, Forest City Realty Trust


, Invacare (retired Chairman, President and CEO)


, President and CEO, CareSource


, Chairman and CEO, Kenan Advantage Group


 (retired)


, Senior Advisor, Jones Day


, Co-Chairman Emeritus, Forest City Realty Trust


, MD, Chief Wellness Officer, Cleveland Clinic


 President and CEO, Aultman Health


, Chairman and CEO, M/I Homes


, Charna E. Sherman Law Offices Co., LPA


, Founder, Chairman and CEO, Soin International


, Chairman, President and CEO, Huntington Bancshares


, Chairman and CEO, RPM International


, Managing Partner, Porter, Wright, Morris and Arthur


, Chairman and CEO, Owens Corning




, Chairman, CEO and President, TimkenSteel


, Managing Partner, Bricker & Eckler


 Managing Partner and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Dinsmore


 Parker Hannifin (retired Chairman, President and CEO)


, Chairman, Air Enterprises


, Chairman, American Greetings Corporation


, Chairman and CEO, L Brands


, President, North American Properties


, Chairman, The Dispatch Printing Company