





SCARBOROUGH: "Whose fault do you think it is that there hasn't been peace, the Israelis or the Palestinians?" TRUMP: "You know, I don't want to get into it. I don't want to get into it for a different reason because, if I do win, there has to be a certain amount of surprise, unpredictability. Our country has no unpredictability. If I win, I don't want to be in a position where I'm saying to you — and the other side now say, 'We don't want Trump involved. We don't want —' Let me be sort of a neutral guy." (MSNBC Town Hall, 2/17/16)
"GOP presidential front-runner Donald Trump on Wednesday refused to pick sides in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. 'You know, I don't want to get into it,' he told hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski during a MSNBC town hall in Charleston, S.C. … 'Let me be sort of a neutral guy,' the billionaire added." (The Hill, 2/17/16)
"'If I win, I don't want to be in a position where I'm saying to you [my choice] and the other side now says, 'We don't want Trump involved,' the real estate mogul said of potentially winning the presidency and then brokering a lasting peace deal." (The Hill, 2/17/16) 
"Donald Trump was heavily booed Thursday after refusing to say whether he recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. 'Can I at least try and pin you down on Jerusalem is the undivided capital of Israel?' an event organizer at the Republican Jewish Coalition's 2016 presidential forum asked the leading GOP candidate. 'Yeah, go ahead ...' Trump responded, seemingly looking to change topics. 'No, is that a position you support?' the organizer shot back. 'You know what I want to do — I want to wait until I meet with Bibi ... I just want to,' Trump said, referring to an upcoming meeting between him and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, which he announced during a campaign rally Wednesday. His response was a met with a loud boo from the majority of the crowd." (Washington Examiner, 12/3/15)
"'I have a real question as to whether or not both sides want to make it,' Trump said, before explaining that his concerns predominantly reside with 'one side in particular.' 'A lot will have to do with Israel and whether or not Israel wants to make the deal — whether or not Israel's willing to sacrifice certain things. They may not be, and I understand that, and I'm OK with that. But then you're just not going to have a deal.'" (The Atlantic, 12/3/15)