"Getting attacked is a clear sign that John Kasich is gaining momentum. The Ohio people will see right through these over-the-top and ridiculous attacks.
Unlike Donald Trump who has shipped American jobs overseas, the people of Ohio know Governor Kasich is helping bring jobs from China and Mexico back to Ohio. That's why Ohio has added more than 400,000 jobs since John Kasich became governor.
As Gov. Kasich continues to climb in the polls thanks to his positive vision for America, we expect the attacks to get more and more desperate, but we are going to stay positive and focused on solutions because that's what the American people need."
 After John Kasich helped Wall Street predator Lehman Brothers destroy the world economy.
 The people of Ohio first heard this attack six years ago. It failed then, and it will fail now. John Kasich ran a two-man office in Columbus, was one of approximately 800 people at his level in the company and did not have an executive or strategic role in the company. In fact, John Kasich's time in the private sector gave him first-hand knowledge of how job creators make decisions to grow and expand. As governor, John Kasich has applied his experiences to successfully turn around Ohio, create more than 400,000 private sector jobs, grow wages faster than the nation and reduce Ohio's unemployment rate from 9.2 when he took office to 4.9 percent today. Meanwhile the number of failed Trump business ventures and lost jobs is too numerous to list here. Instead, click the hyperlink for an overview: 
.
 He decided to run for Governor of Ohio.
 He didn't just run. He won. Twice. His defeat of Ted Strickland in 2010 was the first time an incumbent Governor lost to someone who had never run statewide in any capacity since 1914. His re-election in 2014 came with him winning 86 of 88 counties, 25 percent of the African American vote and 60 percent of women voters.
 John Kasich has been an absentee Governor, spending most of his time everywhere but Ohio.
 John Kasich's list of accomplishments in Ohio 
. With his level of success in Ohio, it's no wonder Quinnipiac Polling says John Kasich holds 
.
 Especially Michigan, the latest disaster in his failing presidential bid.
 Despite Gov. Kasich's late surge in Michigan, the truth is Ohioans don't typically look to Michigan for advice. Governor Kasich is tied for the lead with voters in states yet to vote, and he is the only candidate to lead Hillary Clinton in Ohio. If the campaign is "failing" it's unclear why the Trump campaign is attacking Gov. Kasich.
 Kasich gave Ohio ObamaCare.
 John Kasich opposes Obamacare. He sued the federal government to block it, rejected a state exchange, rejected a federal takeover of Ohio's insurance regulations and rejected a federal takeover of Ohio's Medicaid eligibility process. He wants to repeal Obamacare and replace it with market-based solutions that empower the states He also wasn't going to leave Ohioans' tax money in Washington so Congress could spend it on another state. Instead, after first fixing Ohio's Medicaid program to reduce its growth rate from 10.6 percent to 2.5 percent, he put the system to work to treat more Ohioans with mental illness, drug addiction and other problems so they can join the workforce.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump believes in 
.
 and increased our budget more than any other Governor in the U.S.
 
 and FactCheck 
, too.
Here's the reality. 
 total spending in Ohio under Gov. Kasich's leadership increased by an average of just 2.2 percent per fiscal year, less than the rate of inflation and less than half the average rate of growth from 1999-2011.
 We don't need him in Ohio and we certainly don't need him in Washington.
 Gov. Kasich's job approval rating is 62% and for good reason.
When John Kasich came into office, Ohioans had just lost 350,000 jobs, unemployment was at 9.2%, the state's credit outlook had been downgraded, the rainy-day fund was just $0.89 and the state was facing its largest projected budget shortfall in history.
Today, Ohioans are up over 417,000 private sector jobs, unemployment is at 4.9%, the state's credit outlook has been upgraded, the rainy-day fund is over $2 billion, the budget is structurally balanced and Ohioans have received a total tax cut of $5 billion dollars.
John Kasich shook things up and turned around Ohio. He can turn do the same for America.
 John Kasich just another all talk, no action politician.
 We'll let Gov. Schwarzenegger handle this one.