



I am proud to support Marco to be our next Commander-in-Chief because no candidate better understands the national security challenges we face. He is the only candidate with the knowledge and judgment needed to confront radical Islamic terrorism, and the commitment to use every legally available tool to prevail in that long-term struggle.
Under the Obama/Clinton foreign policy, America has been in retreat across the globe. The first step toward restoring American strength is to rebuild our military. I am endorsing Marco for President because he understands better than any other candidate that we cannot confront the national security challenges of the 21st century without rebuilding our armed forces. Under Marco's comprehensive, detailed plan to rebuild our military, America will be ready to face a growing set of challenges and ensure that our country is safe and prosperous.
I am proud to endorse Marco for President. After seven years of failed leadership by Barack Obama, our allies no longer trust us and our enemies are testing us. We need a president ready to undo the damage of the Obama years on day one. Marco Rubio is that candidate. As one of the most active members of the Senate Foreign Relations and Senate Intelligence Committees, Senator Rubio will not have a learning curve when he steps into the Oval Office. He understands the threats we face and has the experience and wisdom to put America back on track toward a more prosperous and secure future.
From Cuba and Venezuela to Russia, Iran, and China, Marco has always fought to ensure that the United States is on the side of those who are oppressed. He has an innate understanding of America's important role in supporting freedom and standing up to tyranny. As President he would ensure that our allies respect us again and our enemies fear us. That is why I am delighted to join Marco's team.
Our next Commander-in-Chief needs to understand the dangerous world in which we live and be willing to do what is necessary to keep our families and communities safe. I am supporting Marco for President because he actually has a record of warning about emerging crises overseas and clearly outlining how he would deal with them. At times when others have wavered in their support for a strong national defense, he has steadfastly backed the intelligence programs that our law enforcement and intelligence professionals need to defend our country.
, former Deputy National Security Advisor for Global Democracy Strategy
, former Director, National Security Agency
, former Secretary of Homeland Security
, former Counselor of the Department of State
, former Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs
, former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy
, former Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
 former Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs
, former Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security
, former Secretary of the Navy
, former Attorney General
, former Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development
, former Senior Advisor & Chief Spokesman, Coalition in Iraq
, former Ambassador to the European Union
, former Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)