 – Today the Cruz for President campaign continued to build on its strong Georgia leadership team with endorsements from major Georgia leaders including Georgia School Superintendent Richard Woods and Georgia Senate President Pro Tempore David Shafer.
"I am thrilled to announce such outstanding additions to our Georgia leadership team," Cruz stated. "These leaders are some of Georgia's top conservative leaders and they add to our incredible list of courageous conservatives from all across the Peach State."
"On Super Tuesday, we have the great opportunity to move the only consistent, constitutional, Christian conservative candidate closer to becoming the Republican nominee for President. The importance of this election cannot be understated as the future of our amazing nation hangs in the balance. Thus, I am asking all of Georgia to join me in supporting Ted Cruz on Tuesday as we go to the ballot box," said Georgia School Superintendent Richard Woods.
"Ted Cruz is the candidate with a consistent commitment to conservative principles," Shafer stated. "I believe he has the courage to break through the dysfunction of our federal government."
The new endorsements give Cruz a total of two statewide elected officials, two current or former members of Congress, ten current and former state senators, twelve current and former state representatives, congressional chairs in all fourteen Georgia congressional districts, and over 130 county chairs leading his Georgia campaign.
The full list of new Georgia endorsements is:
Richard Woods, Georgia Schools Superintendent

Sen. David Shafer, Georgia Senate President Pro Tempore

Sen. Hunter Hill, District 6

Sen. Greg Kirk, District 13

Rep. Earl Ehrhart, District 36

Rep. Ed Seltzer, District 35

Rep. Scot Turner, District 21

Neil Warren, Cobb County Sheriff

Barry Morgan, Cobb County Solicitor
Cruz for President also recently announced the endorsement of former Congressman and U.S. Senate candidate Jack Kingston.
Previously released Georgia leadership lists can be found 
 and 
.