Today is one of the most important days of this campaign. Check back here throughout the day for the latest from Super Tuesday, including real-time updates from the trail, photos, voting information—and of course, results. Scroll to the bottom to read from the beginning.?
 

  " Now this campaign moves forward to the Crescent City, the Motor City, and beyond."
 
Hillary won Massachusetts!

  Back at you, Massachusetts. 
 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 


 
Hillary Clinton just delivered remarks in Miami.

  " ... We know we've got work to do. But that work is not to make America great again—America never stopped being great. We have to make America whole. We have to fill in what's been hollowed out. We have to make strong the broken places. Re-stitch bonds of trust and respect across our country. Now, it might be unusual—as I've said before—for a presidential candidate to say this, but I'm going to keep saying it: I believe what we need in America today is more love and kindness. "

  " ... There is no doubt in my mind that America's best years are ahead of us. We have got to believe that. We've got to work for that. We have to stand with each other. We have to lift each other up. And never stop believing in the future."
 
The stars at night ...
Thank you, Texas! 
 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 


 
Polls are now closed in Texas and the Colorado caucuses have begun.


 
Minnesota: If you were at your caucus location by 8:00 p.m. you are eligible to caucus. If you were in the line of cars, tell them that you were waiting in line in your car!


 
Update: Hillary Clinton is about to take the stage in Miami.


 
As the results come in, show Hillary you have her back.
 
The results are in from Arkansas—and Hillary couldn't be prouder.
A win especially close to Hillary's heart. 
 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 
 
Polls are closed in Arkansas.


 
More results!
High five: We just won Alabama and Tennessee. 
 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 
 
Polls are now closed in Alabama, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, and Tennessee—and the Minnesota caucuses have begun. We'll keep you posted as the results come in!


 
Meanwhile, back at HQ ...
The staff is hard at work, coordinating with teams on the ground in Super Tuesday states.
Pizza. Chips. 2 bottles of Sriracha. Just the basics to survive 
 w/ 
 and 
. 
— Ian Sams (@IanSams) 
Serving 
 realness here at HQ! ???????? ???????? ???????? 
— Victor Ng (@victomato) 
If you have any questions about voting or caucusing, the Hillary for America crew is standing by to answer them! Call 844-IM4-HILL (844-464-4455)
It's 
 and Team HFA is here to help! Ask us a question by replying or tagging 
. 
— Hillary for America (@HFA) 
 
Results are starting to come in!

  The first 
 results are in: We won Georgia and Virginia! 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 


 
Polls are now closed in Georgia, Vermont, and Virginia. Stay tuned for results!


 
Our favorite Super Tuesday selfies so far


 
 
 
 
— Logan Heiman (@HeimanLA) 
Wild to think my grandfather who is 93, did not have the opportunity or the right to vote when he was my age in 1948. 
— Logan Heiman (@HeimanLA) 
I voted for the first time and it was such a great feeling ???? 
 
 
 
— victoria (@OhItsVic) 
 because 
. (Don't forget your Virginia photo ID!) 
— ClinicEscort (@ClinicEscort) 
 (& I got up early to do it)! 
 
 
 
 
— Michelle Wu ?? (@wutrain) 


 
A little inspiration from on the ground.
At field offices across the country, volunteers are making last-minute calls to Hillary supporters in Super Tuesday states. (
 to help make calls from wherever you are!)
Kevin from Georgia is one of them. He recently wrote Hillary a 
 about his new baby, his hopes and dreams for his family, and why he's counting on her to win. And today he's doing everything he can to help her do it.
 
President Clinton is on the trail in Massachusetts
President Clinton drew a big crowd inside the library. 
— Newton Free Library (@NewtonFreeLib) 
Bill Clinton campaigning with Mayor Walsh in Boston for Hillary Clinton. 
 
— John Moroney (@JMoNecn) 
Here's 
 giving an impromptu bullhorn speech at a Massachusetts polling place because America is awesome. 
— Ian Sams (@IanSams) 
 
Want to help Hillary Clinton win today? Time to hop on the phone.
Today's a HUGE day for our campaign—Super Tuesday wins will go a long way toward helping Hillary Clinton secure the nomination.
With 800+ delegates on the line, we've got to do everything we can to get Hillary supporters out there to make their voices heard.
Even in a digital world, the most effective way to make sure our supporters turn out (besides knocking on their doors) is by calling them on the phone—old-school style.
Can you make a few calls for Hillary today? We'll be calling into 11 of the states holding contests—Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, and Virginia.
You don't even need a phone—you just need to 
And don't worry if you've never done this before—we'll walk you through everything you need.
Let's do this!
 
Delegates 101: Why Super Tuesday is so super
Democrats are voting or caucusing today in 12 contests—11 states, plus the territory of American Samoa.
Across these contests, there are more than 800 delegates up for grabs—more than on any other day single day in the presidential primary. For comparison's sake, there were 156 delegates at stake in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, and South Carolina 
.?
Democratic delegates will represent the party at its national convention this summer. When primary voters and caucus-goers go to the polls, they're actually choosing which candidate to pledge delegates to—and the candidate with the majority of delegates at the convention will become the Democratic presidential nominee.
There are 4,051 pledged delegates up for grabs in this year's Democratic primary—with a specific number awarded in every caucus and primary. Delegates in Democratic caucuses and primaries are awarded based on how much support each candidate receives.
Right now—after the first four contests—Hillary Clinton is winning the pledged delegate count with 91 delegates. Senator Bernie Sanders has 65.
At the end of Super Tuesday, about a quarter of pledged delegates will have been awarded. Here's the breakdown of the delegates at stake today:
 
The polls are open!
Polls are now open in every state that votes today (not every state votes, though—there are also several caucuses).
If you live in ...
? then it's time for you to get out and vote—and bring a friend with you! If you still need to find your polling location, 
!
It's 
 and thousands are heading to the polls. RT to let them know why you're with her! 
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) 
 
Welcome to Super Tuesday!
More than 800 delegates are at stake in the Democratic primary in more than 12 contests—and this is your handy guide to all the latest as it happens.
Hillary and President Clinton are both on the trail, people across the country are phone-banking and canvassing, and organizers are ready to go!?