

There are more than 1,000 people here at the Marco Rubio event. 


— Emily Lawler (@emilyjanelawler) 
A substantial crowd at the Rubio rally in Grand Rapids. Much larger than his December visit. 
 


— Simon Schuster (@Simon_Schuster) 
People lining up to see Marco Rubio at campaign event in Grand Rapids 


— Amy Hybels (@wwmtahybels) 
Quite a line to see 
 in Grand Rapids MI ! Son-in-law and granddaughter are there Rubio 


— dixie dodd (@dixieldodd) 


Huizenga: Rubio shares our values. "The things that make west Michigan a great place to live and work & raise families — that's Marco Rubio"

— Chad Livengood (@ChadLivengood) 
Got my vote today in GR 
 !! Unbelievable experience hearing you speak!! 
 


— Max Foster (@TheeFoster) 
VIDEO: Rubio doesn't just want to win Mich. primary. He wants to become first Republican since 1988 to win general. 


— Chad Livengood (@ChadLivengood) 
U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio pitched himself at a campaign rally Tuesday night in west Michigan as the presidential candidate who can unite the Republican Party and carry Michigan in the general election for the first time in a generation.

Rubio cautioned a crowd of nearly 2,000 gathered at a suburban Grand Rapids automotive supplier warehouse against casting a vote in Michigan's March 8 primary in anger — something GOP frontrunner Donald Trump has tapped into in early voting states with success.

"This election cannot be just about making a point. I know you're angry and frustrated. You should be," Rubio said at a rally in a Lacks Enterprises warehouse. "Today we are led by the most selfish leaders in both parties in the history of the United States."
Chuck DeLeeuw and his wife, Gail, of Hudsonville, said they've drifted toward supporting the Florida senator in the last several weeks.

"I think he's a solid conservative guy on the social issues and he's got the experience," he said. "And I like his honesty more than what we're seeing in the other candidates. He's the one that we'd take the time and effort to come and see."
MARCO RUBIO IS IN GRAND RAPIDS AND NO ONE TOLD ME ARE YOU KIDDING ME

— Shan (@shan_cake) 