





Marco's going to win the White House because he shares the American people's frustration with the disastrous eight years we've had under Obama, and he knows how to channel that feeling into innovative policy ideas, unite our country and lead us into the future. Our growing support in Florida is a strong sign that we'll have the team in place to turn out the early vote in the coming weeks and close the deal with a victory on March 15.
Marco has been the best candidate since day one ,and I'm glad to see so many in the Florida delegation supporting him. Marco is the only candidate that can unify our party and his growing support is proof of that. The coming weeks are going to be probably the most important of the whole campaign. Team Marco is only getting stronger and I'm confident that we are going to see results that can win him the nomination.
I am proud to continue to support my friend Marco Rubio for President. I have always maintained that Marco is a once in a generation leader for conservative values who will take our message of opportunity and prosperity to those who have become disenfranchised with the failed promises of the liberal agenda.
During my time in public service, I have rarely seen someone with such potential as Marco Rubio. He has been blessed with a talent to effectively espouse our conservative principles to all walks of life. This ability gives him the opportunity to unite America behind his vision of a new American century. I am proud of his work to strengthen America's armed forces, families, workers, and taxpayers. Our time to come together is now and I wholeheartedly support his efforts to become the 45th President of the United States.
After eight years of Barack Obama, our nation is in desperate need of strong conservative leadership. We need a president who will not point the finger when faced with a challenge, but instead propose solutions that will better our nation. We need a president who will not whittle away at the rights our forefathers embedded into the Constitution, but instead staunchly defend these freedoms we hold dear. We need a president who will not create barriers to growth and prosperity, but instead clear the path for any American to pursue the American Dream. That's why I'm proud to support Florida's own, Marco Rubio for President.
After eight years of the Obama presidency, our country finds itself buried in debt, bitterly divided, and weakened internationally. Our country needs a President who can unite us, inspire us, and lead us into the future. Marco Rubio was an outstanding Speaker of the Florida House and United States Senator. Marco is the only candidate who can reignite our economy, restore our leadership on the international stage after the failures of the feckless Clinton-Obama foreign policy, and revive the promise of the American Dream so our children inherit an America that is stronger and more prosperous than ever before. I am honored to endorse Marco Rubio for President of the United States, and I look forward to helping him defeat Hillary Clinton in November.
Marco Rubio understands that we are a country of families, faith, and freedom.  He knows that we have to restore our nation's integrity at home and rebuild our reputation around the world. There is no better candidate to articulate the Republican Party's vision for America.
Lieutenant Governor Carlos Lopez-Cantera
Chief Financial Officer Jeff Atwater
Agriculture Commissioner Adam Putnam

Former Lieutenant Governor Bobby Brantley
Former Chief Financial Officer Tom Gallagher
Former Attorney General Bill McCollum
Former Secretary of State Sandy Mortham

Dean Cannon
Larry Cretul
Allan Bense
Johnnie Byrd
Tom Feeney

House Speaker Steve Crisafulli
House Speaker-designate Richard Corcoran
House Majority Leader Dana Young

Sen. Thad Altman
Sen. Denise Grimsley
Sen. David Simmons
Sen. Kelli Stargel
Rep. Dennis Baxley
Rep. Jason Brodeur
Rep. Colleen Burton
Rep. Robert "Bob" Cortes
Rep. Fred Costello
Rep. Eric Eisnaugle
Rep. Mike La Rosa
Rep. Mike Miller
Rep. Edwin Cary Pigman
Rep. Scott Plakon
Rep. René "Coach" Plasencia
Rep. Charlie Stone
Rep. Jennifer Sullivan
Rep. John Wood
Rep. Ritch Workman

Sen. Aaron Bean
Sen. Travis Hutson
Rep. Travis Cummings
Rep. Charles McBurney
Rep. Keith Perry
Rep. Elizabeth Porter
Rep. Lake Ray
Rep. Cyndi Stevenson

Rep. Bill Hager
Rep. Gayle Harrell
Rep. MaryLynn Magar
Rep. Debbie Mayfield
Rep. Patrick Rooney

Rep. Doug Broxson
Rep. Brad Drake
Rep. Clay Ingram

Sen. Miguel Diaz de la Portilla
Sen. Anitere Flores
Sen. Rene Garcia
Rep. Frank Artiles
Rep. Bryan Avila
Rep. Michael Bileca
Rep. Jose Felix Diaz
Rep. Manny Diaz, Jr.
Rep. Erik Fresen
Rep. George Moraitis
Rep. Jeanette Nunez
Rep. Jose Oliva
Rep. Holly Raschein

Sen. Jeff Brandes
Sen. Nancy Detert
Sen. Jack Latvala
Sen. Tom Lee
Rep. Jim Boyd
Rep. Daniel Burgess Jr.
Rep. Julio González
Rep. Jamie Grant
Rep. Shawn Harrison
Rep. Chris Latvala
Rep. Ray Pilon
Rep. Jake Raburn
Rep. Dan Raulerson
Rep. Ray Rodrigues
Rep. Jimmie T. Smith
Rep. Ross Spano
Rep. Chris Sprowls

Sen. Garrett Richter
Rep. Matt Caldwell
Rep. Dane Eagle
Rep. Heather Fitzenhagen
Rep. Ken Roberson