



After too many years of economic stagnation, weakness abroad and a sense of national decline, we need a leader that can unite our country and lead us into a New American Century. While others take advantage of and prey on people's fears, Marco Rubio has a conservative, optimistic vision for the future of our nation and is the only candidate that can win in November. I strongly encourage my fellow Mainers to support Marco Rubio.
I am enthusiastically supporting Marco Rubio for President of the United States because he is the only candidate running that can beat Hillary Clinton and accomplish real conservative reforms for our country. Marco represents the very best of what our nation has to offer and I am confident that as president he will fight every day to ensure the next generation has every opportunity to prosper and achieve the American Dream. I urge Maine Republicans to caucus for Marco Rubio this Saturday, March 5th.
Rep. Bruce Bickford, Auburn
County Commissioner Percy "Joe" Brown, Hancock County
County Commissioner Vinton Cassidy, Washington County
Sen. Ron Collins, Wells
Hon. Jim Donnelly, Former House Republican Leader, Brewer
Rep. A.J. Edgecomb, Fort Fairfield
Rep. Bob Foley, Wells
County Commissioner Amy Fowler, Waldo County
County Commissioner Chris Gardner, Washington County
Rep. Karen Gerrish, Lebanon
Rep. Phyllis Ginzler, Bridgton
Rep. Matt Harrington, Sanford
Lee Jackson, Penobscot County Republican Chair, Old Town
Former State Rep. Gary Knight, Livermore Falls
Sen. Brian Langley, Ellsworth
Rep. Joyce Maker, Calais
Rep. Richard Malaby, Hancock
County Commissioner Steve Merrill, Oxford County
Isaac Misiuk, 2014 CD1 GOP Nominee, Gorham
Rep. Dwayne Prescott, Waterboro
County Commissioner Phil Roy, Somerset County
Ginger Smith, Republican City Chair, Auburn
Rep. Will Tuell, East Machias
County Commissioner Paul Underwood, Aroostook County
Rep. Karen Vachon, Scarborough
Rep. Nate Wadsworth, Hiram
Rep. Dustin White, Washburn

House Republican Leader Ken Fredette, Newport
State Representative and Former House Speaker Bob Nutting, Oakland
Former Senate President Kevin Raye, Perry
Former House Republican Leader Josh Tardy, Newport
State Senator Amy Volk, Scarborough
Former Maine GOP Chair Charlie Webster, Farmington