 certain forest lands within the State of North Carolina have been or may hereafter be acquired by the United States of America under the authority of sections 6 and 7 of the act of March 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, sections 515, 516); and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve and designate such lands as the Croatan National Forest:
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the authority vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, ch. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, section 471), and by section 11 of the said act of March 1, 1911 (U.S.C., title 16, section 521), do proclaim that  there are hereby reserved and set apart as the Croatan National Forest all lands of the United States within the following-described area, and that all lands therein which may hereafter be acquired by the United States under authority of said act of March 1, 1911, as amended, shall upon their acquisition be reserved and administered as a part of the Croatan National Forest:
Beginning at the confluence of Brices Creek and Trent River about two miles south of New Bern in the State of North Carolina; thence southerly up Brices Creek to the confluence with Lees Branch; thence up Lees Branch about one mile to where the Rockwell line leaves it northward; thence with the Rockwell line northerly about ⅜ mile; thence with the Rockwell line easterly to the Norfolk Southern Railway; thence with the Norfolk Southern Railway southeasterly about 1½ miles to where road crosses leading to Camp KI-RO; thence with the road leading to Camp KI-RO northeasterly and continuing a straight course about one mile to Neuse River; thence down the right bank of Neuse River about 16 miles to the mouth of Clubfoot Creek; thence with Clubfoot Creek, the Old Inland Waterway and Harlowe Creek to Newport River; thence up the left bank of Newport River about 10 miles to State Highway No. 10; thence with said Highway southeasterly about 3 miles to the road leading to Catholic Orphanage Camp; thence along said road southward about ¾ mile to State Highway No. 24; thence with said Highway westward about 16 miles to White Oak River; thence up the left bank of White Oak River about 26 miles to State Highway No. 30; thence with said Highway northeasterly about 9½ miles to Trent River; thence down the right bank of Trent River about 14 miles to the place of beginning.
The area described above is graphically shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 29th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-first.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL