Hillary for America Senior National Spokesperson Glen Caplin released the following statement today after Donald Trump's comments saying he, "Could see myself meeting with Putin and meeting with Russia prior to the start of the administration."
"It's unclear why Donald Trump needs to meet with Vladimir Putin on November 9th since he's already repeating all his talking points, pushing his policy agenda and taking advantage of his espionage operation. Rest assured that as president, Hillary Clinton will stand up to Putin in the face of his unacceptable behavior, not coddle him."
Hillary for America previously released a new video cataloguing Trump's disturbing connections to Russia and why they are so concerning. Watch it 
.
The campaign also recently released a Medium post on the Russian hack that Donald Trump refuses to admit or condemn laying out an important question that voters deserve to know - "What did Trump know, and when did he know it?" Read it 
.
 
- top Russian officials meanwhile shifted away from denying a role in separate hacking of the Democratic National Committee.
 Stone unwittingly admitted the Russians are the source for WikiLeaks when he said, "The DNC heist documents…were hacked and first made public by Guccifer 2.0, almost a month ago, and when that did not get the appropriate traction, he took them to WikiLeaks who then leaked them."  
4) According to 
 "several current and former officials who have worked in the Justice Department,
 Despite that information, Trump stood on the debate stage and claimed to 80 million Americans that it could be anyone including someone "sitting in their bed who weighs 400 pounds." Why?
"Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing," Trump said. "I think you'll be rewarded mightily by our press!"
 Because Donald Trump won't release his taxes, the full extent of his Russian business interests that could conflict with American national security interests is largely unknown. But just some of the recent headlines have revealed 
 of dollars related to Russian business interests; connections to business groups with ties to the Kremlin like 
 business dealings with alleged Russian mobster 
 and a 
 of pursuing business with Russia including the Miss Universe pageant. Trump's son has said that "Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section" of the Trump Organization's assets and that "we see a lot of money pouring in from Russia."
"Trump campaign surrogates are fueling a conspiracy theory that a murdered Democratic National Committee staffer was connected to the hacking of the DNC, a theory being pushed by WikiLeaks and the Russian state-controlled press. 
 "They viewed Mr. Trump's comments on NATO as an abandonment of America's most significant alliance relationship. Mr. Trump has said throughout his campaign that he intends to upend Republican foreign policy orthodoxy on everything from trade to Russia, where he has been complimentary of President Vladimir V. Putin, saying nothing about its crackdown on human rights and little about its annexation of Crimea."
14) Top Democrats on four House committees that oversee national security on Friday 
 Donald Trump's purported ties to the Russian government and its alleged hacking of Democratic groups and operatives.