 certain forest lands within the State of South Carolina have been or may hereafter be acquired by the United States of America under the authority of sections 6 and 7 of the act of March 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, secs. 515, 516); and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve and designate such lands as the Francis Marion National Forest:
, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, ch. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 471), and by section 11 of the said act of March 1, 1911 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 521), do proclaim that there are hereby reserved and set apart as the Francis Marion National Forest all lands of the United States within the following-described boundaries, and that all lands therein which may hereafter be acquired by the United States under the said act of March 1, 1911, as amended, shall upon their acquisition be reserved and administered as a part of the Francis Marion National Forest:
Beginning on the right bank of the South Santee River at the mouth of the Canal which drains the Santee Gun Club Reserve; thence southwesterly with the canal and the main stream flowing into it approximately ⅝ mile to a point at the inland edge of the coastal marsh; thence southwesterly with the edge of the marsh to the junction of three roads near the head of Dupre Creek; thence southwesterly with the road to a point on the north bank of the Intra-Coastal Waterway; thence southwesterly with the north bank of the Intra-Coastal Waterway to the north fork of Belvedere Creek, excluding along this line any portions of the Cape Romain Migratory Bird Refuge which may lie northwest of the Intra-Coastal Waterway; thence northwesterly with the meanders of Belvedere Creek to the end of a secondary road; thence southwesterly with said road and the Sewee Road to the point where the latter intersects the eastern boundary of Tract No. 92, property of the United States; thence southeasterly, southwesterly, and northwesterly with the boundary of said Tract No. 92, to a point on said road; thence southwesterly with the Sewee Road to a point on the eastern boundary of Tract No. 113r, property of the United States; thence southeasterly, southwesterly, and northwesterly with the boundary of Tract No. 113r, to the point where the western boundary of said Tract is crossed by the Sewee Road; thence southwesterly with said road, taking the right-hand road at approximately 1½ miles, to U.S. Highway No. 17; thence southerly with Highway No. 17, approximately ¼ mile to the inland edge of the Wando Marsh; thence northwesterly with the edge of the marsh to the Wando River; thence westerly down the right bank of Wando River, running with the north channel and Guerin Creek so as to exclude Paradise Island and Cat Island, to Cainhoy; thence northwesterly with the main public road approximately three miles to its intersection with Clement's Ferry Road; thence northerly with the Clement's Ferry Road to the Qulmby Bridge; thence northwesterly with the right bank of Qulmby Creek to a point on the northwest bank of the East branch of Cooper River; thence southwesterly with north or right bank of Cooper River to a point at or near Tract No. 1239; thence northwesterly with the southwest boundary of Tract No. 1239 to State Highway No. 402; thence westerly with Highway No. 402, approximately 1½ miles to Strawberry Road; thence westerly with Strawberry Road approximately 2 miles to a road fork just south of the Seaboard Airline Railroad; thence northerly with the right-hand road, crossing the railroad, to Highway No. 402; thence northwesterly with Highway No. 402 passing Biggins Church to a point on the Santee Canal; thence northwest with the east bank of the Santee Canal to a point on the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad; thence northeasterly with the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad to a point on the south boundary of Tract No. 76, property of the United States; thence northwesterly, northerly, and easterly with the boundary of Tract No. 76 to Corner No. 81 of said Tract, beside a road; thence easterly with said road to where it crosses the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad; thence northeasterly with the Atlantic Coast Railroad to a point on the south bank of the Santee River; thence southeasterly with the right bank of the Santee and South Santee Rivers to the place of beginning.
The boundaries of the Francis Marion National Forest are graphically shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be afflxod
 at the City of Washington this 10th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-first.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL