 certain forest lands within the State of South Carolina have been or may hereafter be acquired by the United States of America under the authority of sections 6 and 7 of the act of March 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, secs. 515, 516); and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to reserve and designate such lands together with certain other lands heretofore forming a part of the Nantahala National Forest as the Sumter National Forest:
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the power vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, ch. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 471), and by section 11 of the said act of March 1, 1911 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 521), do proclaim that there are hereby reserved and set apart as the Sumter National Forest all lands of the United States within the following-described boundaries, and that all lands therein which may hereafter be acquired by the United States under authority of the said act of March 1, 1911, as amended, shall upon their acquisition be reserved and administered as a part of the Sumter National Forest:
ENOREE DIVISION
Beginning at the intersection of S.C. Highways 9 and 91, the most northerly point on said Unit, approximately one-quarter mile East of Lockhart; thence southeasterly with Highway 9, approximately five miles to intersection with Old Columbia road at Wilksburg; thence southerly with Old Columbia road approximately 12 miles, passing Leeds, to intersection of S.C. Highway 7; thence westerly with Highway 7, 1½ miles to intersection with S.C. Highway 215; thence southerly with S.C. Highway 215, approximately 15 miles to intersection with Dawkins Road approximately 1½ miles south of Salem Cross Roads; thence southwesterly 5½ miles with said road to Dawkins, S.C., at Broad River; thence northwesterly with the left bank of Broad River 3 miles to S.C. Highway 22 at Strother; thence southwesterly with Highway 22 approximately 13 miles crossing Broad River to intersection with S.C. Highway 192, approximately 2½ miles northeast of Newberry; thence westerly with Highway 192, 1½ miles, crossing U.S. Highway 176, to intersection with U.S. Highway 76; thence northwesterly with Highway 76 approximately 17 miles passing Kinards and Goldville to the intersection with old local road leading to Jones Crossing; thence northeasterly with said old local road approximately 7 miles crossing S.C. Highway 7 to the west boundary of Tract No. 18a under option to the United States; thence with the lines of said tract northerly to Corner 1 thereof; thence northeasterly with the old location of the Jones Bridge Road to the new location thereof; thence northeasterly with said Jones Bridge Road crossing Enoree River to Highway 92 at Cross Keys; thence with said S.C. Highway 92 approximately 8 miles, crossing Tyger River, to Fair Forest Creek; thence southeasterly down and with the meanders of Fair Forest Creek, approximately 4 miles, to local road at Harris Bridge; thence northeasterly with local road approximately 4 miles to intersection with U.S. Highway 176 at Hebron Church; thence northeasterly with U.S. Highway 176, 1 mile to intersection with local road approximately 2½ miles south of Union; thence northeasterly following said local road approximately 10 miles crossing S.C. Highway 215 and Southern Railway to Coleman Creek; thence easterly down and with the meanders of Coleman Creek, about one mile to Broad River; thence crossing Broad River and running with the left bank thereof in a northeasterly direction about 4 miles to the bridge at Lockhart; thence easterly with State Highway 91, approximately one-fourth mile to the place of beginning.
OCONEE DIVISION
Beginning at Ellicottes Rock, the point where the 35th parallel of latitude intersects the Chattooga River, the common corner of the states of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia; thence northeasterly with the North Carolina-South Carolina State Line to a point in Sassafras Gap, a corner of Pickens and Greenville Counties; thence southerly and easterly with the meanders of the Pickens-Greenville County Line, down and with South Saluda River, to a point which is N 45° W from Table Rock; thence S 45° E approximately 1.5 miles to the summit of Table Rock; thence S 38° W approximately 4.8 miles to Oolenoy Bridge; thence S 76°30' W approximately 17.7 miles to corner 2 of Tract No. 307e, property of the United States; thence southerly a straight line to corner 4 of Tract No. 881 property of the United States; thence southerly with the boundary of Tract No. 881 to corner 3 of said tract; thence southerly a straight line to corner 8 of Tract No. 486, property of the United States; thence southwesterly with the boundary of Tract No. 486 to corner 7 of said tract; thence southwesterly a straight line to corner 2 of Tract No. 800-b, property of the United States; thence southwesterly and westerly with the boundary of Tract No. 800-b to corner 13 of Tract No. 873, property of the United States; thence southerly and westerly with the boundary of Tract No. 873 to corner 5 of said tract; thence southwesterly a straight line to corner 8 of Tract No. 800a, property of the United States; thence in a general southerly direction with the eastern boundaries of Tracts Nos. 800a, 307c, 800a—I and 886, all the property of the United States, running so as to include them herein, to corner 8 of Tract No. 886; thence southwesterly a straight line to corner 43 of Tract No. 800, property of the United States; thence in a general southerly direction with the eastern boundary of Tract No. 542, property of the United States, to corner 3 of said tract; thence southerly a straight line to corner 60 of Tract No. 800; thence southerly and westerly, with the eastern and southern boundary of Tract No. 800 to corner 64 of said tract; thence southwesterly a straight line to corner 17 of Tract No. 489, property of the United States; thence southerly, with the eastern boundary of Tract No. 489, to corner 3 of said tract; thence southwesterly a straight line to corner 2 of Tract No. 430, property of the United States; thence westerly with the southern boundary of Tract No. 430 to corner 4 of said tract; thence westerly a straight line to corner 21 of Tract No. 800f, property of the United States; thence northwesterly with the southwestern boundaries of Tracts Nos. 800f and 428, to corner 1 of the latter tract; thence northerly a straight line to corner 2 of Tract No. 428a, property of the United States; thence in a general westerly, then northerly, then westerly direction, with the boundaries of Tracts 428a, 302j and 302, so as to include them herein, to corner 14 of Tract No. 302; thence northwesterly a straight line to the junction of the Chattooga and Tallulah Rivers; thence in a general northeasterly direction, with the meanders of the Chattooga River, which forms the Georgia-South Carolina State Line, to the place of beginning.
LONG CANE DIVISION
Beginning at the junction of Stevens Creek with Savannah River; thence northwesterly with the meanders of Savannah River to Wallace Landing about 1 mile above the mouth of Dordon Creek; thence easterly with the most direct public road to Parksville; thence northerly with the Scott's Ferry Road to its junction with the Edgefleld-Abbevllle Road at Liberty Hill; thence northwesterly with the latter road to its junction with South Carolina State Highway No. 43; thence westerly with Highway No. 43 to the point where it crosses Rocky Creek; thence northerly with the meanders of Rocky Creek approximately 2 miles to a point where it is crossed by a public road; thence westerly with said public road to its junction with State Highway No. 10; thence southerly with State Highway No. 10 to the point where it first crosses the C. & W.C. Railroad; thence in a general southeasterly direction with the C. & W.C. Railroad to Plum Branch; thence southwesterly with a public road to a point on the Savannah River near the mouth of a small branch about ½ mile above the mouth of Landon Branch; thence northwesterly with the meanders of Savannah River to Hesters Ferry about ¾ mile above the mouth of Patterson Creek; thence northeasterly with a public road to its junction with State Highway No. 82 about 1½ miles west of Willington; thence northwesterly with State Highway No. 82 to Mt. Carmel; thence northeasterly with the Mt. Carmel-Abbeville Road passing Calhoun Mill to the junction with State Highway No. 7; thence northeasterly with State Highway No. 7 to its junction with an east and west road about 1 mile south of Abbeville; thence easterly with said east and west road to its junction with the Abbeville-Cedar Hill Road; thence southerly with the meanders of the Abbevllle-Cedar Hill Road approximately 1 mile to a road fork; thence easterly with a public road crossing Norris Creek to the point where said road crosses Long Cane Creek; thence northerly with the meanders of Long Cane Creek to the point where said creek is crossed by a public road about ¾ mile above the mouth of McCord Creek; thence westerly with said public road approximately ¼ mile to first road fork; thence northerly with the right-hand road to the point where said road crosses the Southern Railway at Deriah; thence a northeasterly direction with the meanders of the Southern Railway approximately 3 miles to the point where it is crossed by a public road; thence southeasterly with said road crossing State Highway No. 7 at Allen's Chapel to a junction with another road at Woodlawn School; thence southwesterly with said road approximately 1 mile to the junction with a secondary road connecting State Highways Nos. 10 and 7; thence southeasterly with said secondary road passing its junction with State Highway No. 10 to a point on the C. & W.C. Railroad; thence southwesterly with the meanders of the C. & W.C. Railroad to Bradley; thence southeasterly, easterly, and northeasterly with the meanders of a secondary road passing Rushville, Calllson and Rosa, crossing U.S. Highway No. 25, about ¼ mile south of Klrksey, passing Kirksey and taking right-hand road about ¼ mile north thereof, to its junction with U.S. Highway No. 178; thence southeasterly with UH. Highway No. 178 approximately 5½ miles to its junction with a secondary road leading to the right; thence southeasterly with the meanders of said secondary road to its junction with State Highway No. 43; thence southwesterly and westerly with State Highway No. 43, to its junction with the Five Notch Road; thence in a general southeasterly direction with the meanders of the Five Notch Road to a road fork at Young Macedonia Church; thence westerly with the meanders of the right-hand road to the point where it crosses Stevens Creek at the Shaw and McKee Bridge; thence southwesterly with the meanders of Stevens Creek to the place of beginning.
The boundaries of the Sumter National Forest are graphically shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 13th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-first.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL