 certain forest lands within the State of North Carolina have been or may hereafter be acquired by the United States of America under the authority of sections 6 and 7 of the act of March 1, 1911, ch. 186, 36 Stat. 961, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, secs. 515, 516); and
 it appears that the reservation as the Nantahala National Forest of the said lands together with certain other lands heretofore forming parts of the Cherokee National Forest and the Nantahala National Forest would be in the public interest:
, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, ch. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, as amended (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 471), the act of June 4, 1897, ch. 2, 30 Stat. 34, 36 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 473), and by section 11 of the said act of March 1, 1911 (U.S.C., title 16, sec. 521), do proclaim that there are hereby reserved and set apart as the Nantahala National Forest all lands of the United States within the following-described boundaries, and that all lands therein which may hereafter be acquired by the United States under authority of the said act of March 1, 1911, as amended, shall upon their acquisition be reserved and administered as a part of the Nantahala National Forest:
Beginning at "Elllcotte's Rock," the point where the 35th parallel of latitude intersects the Chattooga River, the common corner of the states of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia; thence westerly with the North Carollna-Georgia State Line to the point where the public road leading up Bell Creek, a tributary of Hiwassee River, crosses said state line; thence northerly with the meanders of public road crossing divide and going down Need More Branch to the junction of said road with U.S. Highway No. 64, on the north side of Shooting Creek; thence westerly with U.S. Highway No. 64 approximately ¼ mile to its junction with road leading to Licklog Gap; thence northerly with the meanders of said road approximately ¾ mile to the road leading from Union Chapel to Drowning Creek; thence westerly with said road to its junction with road leading up Drowning Creek; thence northeasterly with said road approximately ¾ mile to the road leading north across Drowning Creek; thence northerly, westerly, and northwesterly with the road leading around the south foot of the mountain dividing the waters of Drowning Creek and Tusquittee Creek to its junction with the main road leading from Hayesville up Tusquittee Creek; thence northeasterly with said road approximately 2½ miles crossing Tusquittee Creek to a road junction about ¼ mile north of the creek; thence westerly with the public road down the north side of Tusquittee Creek and Hiwassee River passing a big bend in the river to a point opposite the second such bend; thence due south to the middle of Hiwassee River; thence westerly with the meanders of Hiwassee River to the Andrews hydro-electric dam; thence northerly with the meanders of the Tennessee and North Carolina Railroad to its intersection with the public road leading up Peachtree Creek; thence northeasterly with said road to a road leading west; thence westerly with said road to the village of Peachtree; thence northerly with public road leading up Slow Creek approximately ⅜ mile crossing railroad and Slow Creek to the second road fork beyond the creek; thence westerly and southwesterly with a public road, crossing Zimmerman Creek, to US. Highway No. 64; thence northwesterly with US. Highway No. 64 to Fall Branch; thence southerly with the meanders of Fall Branch to its junction with the Hiwassee River; thence southeasterly with the meanders of the Hiwassee River to the mouth of Brasstown Creek; thence southeasterly with the meanders of Brasstown Creek to the North Carolina-Georgla State Line; thence westerly with the state line to intersection with public road Just south of Cobb, N.C.; thence northerly with said road passing through Cobb approximately 1 mile to a creek flowing west into Nottely River; thence westerly with the meanders of said creek to its junction with Nottely River; thence westerly and northerly with the meanders of the Nottely River to U.S. Highway No. 64 near Ranger, N.C.; thence westerly with US. Highway No. 64 to the North Carolina-Tennessee State Line; thence in a general northeasterly direction with the North Carollna-Tennessee State Line to where it crosses the Little Tennessee River; thence easterly up and with the meanders of the left tank of the Little Tennessee River to the mouth of the Tuckasegee River; thence easterly with the meanders of the left bank of Tuckasegee River to a point opposite the end of a long ridge approximately ½ mile north of Wilmot; thence northeasterly crossing river and running with said ridge to the top of Little Bald; thence easterly with the meanders of the top of the mountain forming the divide between Soco Creek and Tuckasegee River to the top of Waterrock Knob, on the Jackson-Haywood County Line; thence southeasterly with the Jackson-Haywood County Line to Tennessee Bald, a common corner to the counties of Jackson, Haywood and Transylvania; thence southerly with the Jackson-Transylvania County Line on Tennessee ridge to its Junctions with the Blue Ridge; thence southeasterly with the meanders of the top of the Blue Ridge leaving the county line, to Highway No. 283 in Estatoe Cap; thence southerly with Highway No. 283 to the North Carolina-South Carolina State Line; thence southwesterly with the state line to the place of beginning. Excluding from the above-described land all land within the corporate limits of the towns of Bryson City, Franklin, Dlllsboro, Sylva, Murphy, Andrews, Marble, Robblnsvllle and Highlands.
The boundaries of the Nantahala National Forest are graphically shown on the diagram attached hereto and made a part hereof.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of tiie United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 9th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-first.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL