WASHINGTON, DC — The President's Commission on White House Fellowships announced today the National Finalists for the 2016-2017 White House Fellowship. This year's class of Finalists represents an accomplished and diverse cross-section of professionals from the private sector, academia, medicine, and our armed services.

National Finalists for the nation's premiere program for leadership and public service hail from across the United States, from Akron to Miami, Rapid City to Los Angeles. They have demonstrated remarkable professional achievement early in their careers, a commitment to public service, and the leadership skills needed to succeed at the highest levels of the Federal government.

National Finalists have advanced through a highly competitive selection process, including a comprehensive written application and regional interviews with civic leaders in eight different cities across the country. The National Finalists will be evaluated by the President's Commission on White House Fellowships in Washington, DC from June 9-12, 2016.

A complete list of National Finalists appears below:





Resident, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital and McLean Hospital

Cambridge, Massachusetts



Major, United States Army

Akron, Ohio



Major, United States Army

Spencerport, New York



Master Sergeant, United States Army

Tenino, Washington



Major, United States Air Force

Kalispell, Montana



Lieutenant, United States Coast Guard

Erie, Pennsylvania



Deputy Director, Thunder Valley Community Development Corporation

Rapid City, South Dakota



Politico-Military Fellow, Harvard Kennedy School, and Lieutenant Commander, United States Navy

Equinunk, Pennsylvania



Associate Director, Innovation & Economic Development – Faculty, Honors College Florida International University

Miami, Florida



Lieutenant Colonel, United States Army

Houston, Texas



Deputy Director, Office of Emergency Management, City of Philadelphia

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania



Graduate Student, Tufts University

Orem, Utah



Vice President, Office of the Chairman and CEO, Morgan Stanley

Newtown Square, Pennsylvania



Commander, United States Air Force

Naranjito, Puerto Rico



Academic Superintendent, Cleveland Metropolitan School District

Cleveland, Ohio



Vice President of Operations and Business Development, Quizlet

Nashville, Tennessee



President and Chief Executive Officer, HUSCO International

Milwaukee, Wisconsin



Graduate Student, Harvard University

South Bend, Indiana



Resident Physician, Neurosurgery, Cedar-Sinai Medical Center

Los Angeles, California



Associate, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP

Dover, Ohio



Physician, Pulmonary & Critical Care, University of Chicago

Chicago, Illinois



Press Secretary and Senior Communications Advisor, Office of Governor Mark Dayton and Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith

Saint Paul, Minnesota



Commander, United States Coast Guard

Cabin John, Maryland



Information & Program Coordinator, Disability Rights Fund

Malden, Massachusetts



Major, United States Air Force

La Crosse, Wisconsin



Astrophysics Ph.D. Candidate, Harvard University

Woodlands Hills, California



Senior Director, Global Strategy & Operations, Salesforce.com

San Francisco, California



Senior Associate, McKinsey and Company

Midlothian, Virginia



Resident Physician, New York-Presbyterian Hospital

Spotsylvania, Virginia



Senior Editor, 


Jenkintown, Pennsylvania



Founded in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, the White House Fellows Program offers exceptional Americans first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the Federal government. After a competitive application process, selected individuals spend a year in Washington, DC working full-time for Cabinet Secretaries, senior White House staff, and other top-ranking government officials. Fellows also participate in an education program consisting of roundtable discussions with renowned leaders from the private and public sectors, including the President and Vice President. Fellowships are awarded on a strictly non-partisan basis.

Mary Zients, founder and Board Chair of the Urban Alliance Foundation is the chair of the Commission. Cheryl Dorsey, the President of Echoing Green, serves as Vice Chair. Other members of the Commission are: Beth Cobert (Ex-officio), Wesley Clark, Carmen Corrales, Nelson Diaz, Matrice Ellis-Kirk, Helene Gayle, Alice T. Germond, Vartan Gregorian, Steve Gunderson, Cynthia Hale, Deborah Harmon, Christy Haubegger, Peter Blair Henry, Amanda Hesser, John Hockenberry, Lisa Ling, Shannon Price Minter, George Muñoz, Lloyd W. Newton, Theodore Olson, Roger Porter, Rion Joaquin Ramirez, Steve Spinner, Ziad Haider (Ex-officio; President of the White House Fellows Foundation and Association), George Thibault, Eleanor Kaye Wilson, and Judy Wise.

There are more than 700 White House Fellow alumni, a distinguished group that includes former Secretary of State Colin Powell, former Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros, CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta, and Pulitzer Prize-winning author and historian Doris Kearns Goodwin.

Additional information about the White House Fellows Program can be found at 
. 