President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:

. Ms. Dhillon has served as General Counsel for three Fortune 500 companies. She is currently Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Burlington Stores, Inc. Previously, Ms. Dhillon served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of JC Penney Company, Inc., and before that, as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer of US Airways Group, Inc. Ms. Dhillon began her legal career at the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, where she practiced for thirteen years. Ms. Dhillon is a graduate of Occidental College, magna cum laude, and the UCLA School of Law, where she was awarded Order of the Coif and ranked first in her class. Ms. Dhillon lives in Newtown, Pennsylvania.

. Mr. Glick is General Counsel for the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. Prior to joining the Committee staff in February 2016, Mr. Glick was Vice President, Government Affairs for Iberdrola's renewable energy, electric and gas utility, and natural gas storage businesses in the United States. Mr. Glick previously served as a Director of Government Affairs for PPM Energy and before that was a Director, Government Affairs for PacifiCorp— a multistate electric utility company. Between 1998 and 2001 Mr. Glick served as a Senior Policy Advisor to Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson. Before that he was the Legislative Director and Chief Counsel to Senator Dale Bumpers, of Arkansas. From 1988 to1992 Mr. Glick was an Associate with the law firm of Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard, McPherson and Hand. Mr. Glick received a B.A. from George Washington University and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center.

. Ms. Gordon is the Deputy Director for the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), assisting the Director in leading the agency and in managing the National System for Geospatial Intelligence. Before joining NGA, Ms. Gordon served concurrently as Director of the CIA's Information Operations Center and as the CIA Director's senior advisor on cyber. She was responsible for fully integrating advanced cyber capabilities into all of CIA's mission areas, while protecting against the cyber threat to the CIA's information, operations, and officers. Ms. Gordon also served as Deputy Chief of the Information Operations Center from September 2009 to December 2011 and then as the CIA's Director for Support from January 2012 to November 2013. Ms. Gordon holds a B.S. in Zoology from Duke University. She and her husband live in Northern Virginia, and have two grown children.

. Mr. Urs, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1986. He is currently Charge d' Affaires of the U.S. Embassy in Madrid, Spain, where he was also the Deputy Chief of Mission. During three decades of State Department service, Mr. Urs has specialized in economic issues and developed extensive policy experience in the Andean region of South America. He has served at seven United States embassies as well in senior leadership positions in Washington, D.C. Mr. Urs earned a M.S. from the University of Texas and a B.S. from Georgetown University. He speaks fluent Spanish as well as some Hindi and Telegu.