 it is desired to transfer from the Monongahela National Forest to the George Washington National Forest certain of the lands contained within the boundaries hereinafter described, and to include in and reserve as a part of the George Washington National Forest certain lands acquired by the United States for forestry purposes within the States of Virginia and West Virginia under sections 6 and 7 of the act of March 1, 1911, 36 Stat. 961, 962, as amended (U.S.C., Title 16, secs. 515, 516); and contained within the said boundaries; and
 it appears that it would be in the public interest to redefine the boundaries of the George Washington National Forest:
, President of the United States of America, under and by virtue of the power vested in me by section 24 of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095, 1103, as amended (U.S.C., Title 16, sec. 471), the act of June 4, 1897, ch. 2, 30 Stat. 36 (U.S.C., Title 16, sec. 473), and by section 11 of the said act of March 1, 1911 (U.S.C., Title 16, sec. 521), do proclaim that all lands of the United States within the following-described boundaries shall be, and are hereby, included in, reserved as, and made a part of the George Washington National Forest in the States of Virginia and West Virginia, and that all lands within the said boundaries which may hereafter be acquired by the United States under the said act of March 1, 1911, as amended, shall, upon their acquisition, be permanently reserved and administered as part of the George Washington National Forest:
SHENANDOAH UNIT
(Note: The term "present boundary" in the following descriptions refers to boundaries of National Forests as they existed just prior to the issuance of this Proclamation.)
Beginning at a point on the Allegheny Mountains at the intersection of U.S. Highway #60 with the Virginia-West Virginia State line; thence with the Virginia-West Virginia State line in a northeasterly direction approximately 85 miles to the intersection of said State line with Straight Fork at approximately ¼ of a mile north of the village of Hardscrabble, Highland County, Virginia, a point on the present Monongahela National Forest Boundary; thence southwesterly with said Boundary approximately 11 miles to a point common to the present Monongahela National Forest Boundary, the Monongahela Purchase Unit Boundary, State Route #5 and Back Creek; thence southwesterly with Back Creek approximately 16 miles to the intersection of said creek with the Highland-Bath County line; thence with said county line in a southeasterly direction to the Cowpasture River, a point on the present boundary; thence with the present boundary in a general northeasterly direction approximately 120 miles to a point where the present boundary leaves Lost River; thence easterly with Lost River approximately 1 mile to the mouth of Trout Run and the head of Cacapon River; thence with Cacapon River to the corporate limits of Wardensville; thence with south and easterly corporate limits of Wardensville to Route #55; thence with'Route #55 in a northeasterly direction approximately 1.8 miles to the intersection of Route #55 with the present boundary; thence with the present boundary in a general northeasterly, southeasterly, and southwesterly direction for approximately 30 miles to corner 4 of the St. Lukes Hospital tract #75 b-2; thence leaving present boundary S. 6°00' W. ⅞ mile to corner 2 of tract 752, a point on the present boundary; thence with present boundary in a general southwesterly direction approximately 26 miles to Liberty Furnace; thence with Route #717 at Liberty Furnace in a southwesterly direction via Jerome, approximately 4½ miles to a point where Route #717 intersects present boundary; thence with present boundary in a southwesterly direction approximately 17 miles to the mouth of Sours Run on Runions Creek; thence leaving the present boundary and down Runions Creek to the mouth of Runions Creek on the North Fork Shenandoah River, a point in the present boundary; thence with the present boundary in an easterly and a southwesterly direction approximately 55 miles to the Intersection of present boundary with the Augusta-Rockbridge County line; thence leaving the present boundary and with Augusta-Rockbridge County line in a southeasterly direction approximately 5 miles to a point where said county line crosses Route #602 near Walkers Creek; thence southwesterly with Route #602 approximately 9 miles to the junction of Route #602 with Route #501 (Warm Springs-Lexington Highway) at Rockbridge Baths in Rockbridge County; thence with said Route #501 northwesterly approximately .9 mile to the junction with Route #623; thence with Route #623 in a southwesterly direction along the base of Hog Back and Dale Mountain, approximately 10 miles to the junction of U.S. Highway #60; thence with said U.S. Highway #60 in a westerly direction via Clifton Forge and Covington, Virginia, approximately 57 miles to the point of beginning.
MASSANUTTEN UNIT
Beginning at a concrete tank on top of hill over Massanutten Caverns, approximately 6 miles southeast of Harrisonburg, Rockingham County, Virginia, a point on the present boundary; thence with the present boundary northeasterly approximately 35 miles to the North Fork of Shenandoah River, a point approximately 1.5 miles southeast of Edinburg, Virginia; thence leaving the present boundary and with the North Fork of Shenandoah River northeasterly and easterly approximately 3 miles to corner 2 of Town of Woodstock Tract #410 (acquired) a point on the North Fork of Shenandoah River and the present boundary; thence with the present boundary northeasterly, easterly, and southwesterly approximately 30 miles to a small creek flowing into the South Fork of Shenandoah River a point on the present boundary approximately 3.2 miles north of Bentonville, Warren County, Virginia, and about 3.4 miles southeast of Elizabeth Furnace; thence with said creek in an easterly direction approximately .02 mile to the south Fork of Shenandoah River; thence leaving the present boundary and up the South Fork of Shenandoah River in a southwesterly direction approximately 6 miles to where the said river meets the present boundary, a point approximately 2 miles northwest of Bentonville; thence with the South Fork of Shenandoah River and the present boundary southwesterly approximately 7 miles to a point approximately 1.8 miles west of Campton, Page County, Virginia; thence leaving the present boundary and up the South Fork of Shenandoah River for approximately 3 miles to a point where the said river meets the present boundary; thence with the present boundary southwesterly approximately 12 miles to where the present boundary leaves Route #615, a point approximately 4 miles northwesterly of Luray, Virginia, thence leaving the present boundary and with Route #615 in a southwesterly direction approximately 3 miles to the intersection of Route #615 with U.S. Highway #211; thence with U.S. Highway #211 southwesterly, approximately 1.5 miles to where U.S. Highway #211 meets the present boundary; thence leaving U.S. Highway #211 and with the present boundary southwesterly and northwesterly to the place of beginning.
NATURAL BRIDGE
Beginning at the junction of North River with James River, approximately 1 mile southeast of the Village of Glasgow, Rockbridge County, Virginia, a point on the present boundary; thence with the present boundary in a northeasterly, easterly, and southwesterly direction to corner 2 of C.H. Poster Tract 16; thence leaving the present boundary S. 8°00' E. approximately 3 miles to the junction of Route #647 with Route #649, approximately 1.7 miles west of Pedlar Mills; thence southeasterly with Route #649 approximately 4 miles to the end of said route on James River; thence in a northwesterly direction with James River to the place of beginning.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 28th day of April, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and thirty-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixtieth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL