 BOOKER: "And so this is truly one of my life's greatest moments. I am humbled to be able to participate here and pay tribute to some of the extraordinary Americans whose footsteps paved the way for me and my generation. I feel blessed and honored to have partnered with Senator Sessions in being the Senate sponsors of this important award." ("FLASHBACK: Booker: 'Honored' to Work With Sessions on Civil Rights," 
, 1/9/17)






 SCHUMER: "Thank you, Senator Sessions. I want to just repay the compliment. We are from different parts of the country. We are different ideologically. But we work together well, and it is a tribute to Jeff. He is straightforward and fair, and I very much appreciate that all the time." (Sen. Chuck Schumer, Hearing, Senate Homeland Security Committee, 4/17/2002)

 LEAHY: "I've had a lot of discussions with Senator Sessions who is actually wonderful to work with." (Sen. Patrick Leahy, Hearing, Senate Judiciary Committee, 6/28/-7/1/10)






 (Sec. Thomas Perez, Hearing, Senate Judiciary Committee, 4/20/10)






 KENNEDY: "I especially commend my lead Republican co-sponsor, Senator Sessions and his dedicated staff, Andrea Sander, William Smith, and Ed Haden. It has been a privilege to work with Senator Sessions and the two lead sponsors of this legislation in the House, Congressmen Frank Wolf and Bobby Scott." (Sen. Edward Kennedy, Congressional Record, U.S. Senate, 7/22/03)

 (Sen. Patrick Leahy, Hearing, Senate Judiciary Committee, 6/28/-7/1/10)






 HOLDER: "Well, Senator, as you know, having been a prosecutor and a great U.S. attorney yourself, there are a whole variety of things that have to go into making a prosecutive determination: What was that person's intent? Did that person act under the thought that he or she had authorization from a higher authority? These are all the kinds of things that would have to be weighed in trying to make a determination whether somebody had acted appropriately, inappropriately, lawfully, or unlawfully." (Attorney General Eric Holder, Hearing, Senate Judiciary Committee, 1/15/09)



