President Donald J. Trump today announced the following appointments for the Executive Office of the President:

 Mr. Carroll previously served as Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff.

 Mr. DeStefano will oversee the Offices of Presidential Personnel, Political Affairs, and Public Liaison. Mr. DeStefano previously served as Assistant to the President and Director of Presidential Personnel.

 Mr. Lyons has been serving as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy White House Staff Secretary.

 Mr. Dhillon previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President.

 He previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Assistant to the Chief of Staff.

 Mr. Leggett previously served as Chief of Staff for the Department of Health and Human Services.

 Ms. Knight previously served as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

 Ms. Marquis previously served as Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

 Mr. Doocey previously served as Special Assistant to the President for Presidential Personnel.

 Colonel Greenwood previously served as Senior Director of Legislative Affairs for the National Security Council.

 Mr. Radford previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Advisor.



 Mr. Haley previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Advisor for Policy, Strategy and Speechwriting.



 Mr. Smith previously served as Urban Affairs and Revitalization Policy Advisor.

 Ms. McKee previously served as Domestic Policy Advisor.

 Mr. Epstein previously served as Associate Counsel to the President.

 Mr. McGinley previously served as Associate Counsel to the President.

 Mr. Moran previously served as Associate Counsel to the President.

 Mr. Moran previously served as Associate Counsel to the President.

 Ms. Murray previously served as Associate Counsel to the President.





 Ms. Baldwin previously served as Speechwriter.

 Ms. Gunn previously served as Senior Director of Cabinet Affairs.

 Mr. Flynn previously served as Senior Director of Cabinet Affairs.

 Mr. Goyer previously served as Legislative Assistant.








