 Mr. Gruters currently works as a Certified Public Accountant and owns Paoli & Gruters Certified Public Accountants. He has been active in political and community organizations during the last 20 years and has been the appointed twice by Governor Rick Scott of Florida to serve as a member of the Florida State University Board of Trustees, where he has chaired the Finance and Audit Committee. He has also served as Co-Chairman of the Florida for President Donald J. Trump's Presidential campaign and as the former campaign manager of Congressman Vern Buchanan. Mr. Gruters is a fourth generation Sarasotan and is currently a member of the Florida House of Representatives for District 73, where he represents Manatee and Sarasota Counties. He is a graduate of both Florida State University, where he earned his undergraduate degree, and the University of South Florida, where he earned an M.B.A.. Mr. Gruters is married to his wife Sydney and they have three children: Spencer, Jack, and Elizabeth.

 Mr. Evanina currently serves as the Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security Center under the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Mr. Evanina has held this post since June of 2014. In this role, Mr. Evanina serves as the head of Counterintelligence (CI) for the U.S. Government and as the principal CI and Security advisor to the Director of National Intelligence. Before holding this role, Mr. Evanina served at the Central Intelligence Agency as the Chief of the Counterespionage Group. Mr. Evanina was born and raised in Peckville, Pennsylvania. He holds a bachelor's degree in public administration from Wilkes University in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, and a master's degree in educational leadership from Arcadia University in Philadelphia. Mr. Evanina and his wife JulieAnne live in Alexandria and have two children.

 Mr. Whitley currently serves as a senior fellow at the Institute for Defense Analyses and the Center for Naval Analysis, and research director at the Crime Prevention Research Center. Mr. Whitley previously served as a health care analyst at the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission, and an adjunct professor at the Trachtenberg School of Public Policy and Public Administration at George Washington University. Additionally, Mr. Whitley served as director of program analysis and evaluation at the Department of Homeland Security, and an operations research analyst within the Office of the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Whitley served in the United States Army, and completed the Ranger Indoctrination Program, Ranger School, Parachute School, Special Forces Assessment and Selection, the Primary Leadership and Development Course, Special Operations Medical Course, and the Basic Non-Commissioned Officers Course. He is a graduate of Virginia Tech and the University of Chicago.


-------







