President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:

. Ms. Baiocco was born and raised in Yorkville, Ohio. She graduated from Ohio University in 1998 and from Duquesne University School of Law in 1997, cum laude. She served as a federal judicial law clerk to The Honorable Gustave Diamond, U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, from 1996-1998. Ms. Baiocco joined the law firm of Jones Day in 1998 in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania office, and became a partner 2007. She was one of the founding partners of Jones Day's Boston office, which opened in 2011. She is a member of the Pennsylvania and Massachusetts Bar Associations, served as the chairwoman of the Pennsylvania Bar Association House of Delegates from 2009 to 2011 and also served on its board of governors. She is also a member of the Boston Bar Association. She currently lives in Boston with her husband, Andrew F. Susko and her daughter, Ava Bruening.

. Mr. Evans is a distinguished attorney, author and public servant. He is currently a partner in the global law firm, Dentons US LLP, which has offices in over 90 countries, and co-chairs the Georgia Judicial Nominating Commission. Mr. Evans was Counsel to the Office of the Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 – 2007. Mr. Evans has been a leader in both the American Bar Association and the Georgia Bar Association serving in senior positions in both. He has co-authored eight books and is a syndicated columnist writing on ethics, climate change and current events. Mr. Evans attended West Georgia College (B.A. 1980), Carrollton, Georgia, and the University of Georgia Law School (Juris Doctor 1983), Athens, Georgia.

. Mr. Roth has most recently served as the deputy comptroller for program and budget in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Comptroller, where his responsibilities included preparing and monitoring the Department of Defense budget. Previously, Mr. Roth served as deputy director of the investment directorate in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Comptroller. Mr. Roth has also performed the duties of the Under Secretary of Defense for Comptroller and has served as Acting Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Comptroller. He began his civil service career as a trainee in the Department of the Navy's centralized financial management program. Mr. Roth is a recipient of the Meritorious Executive Presidential Rank Award, the Distinguished Executive Presidential Rank Award, and the Distinguished Civilian Service Medal. He is a graduate of the University of Virginia and George Washington University.


-----




For terms expiring May 18, 2021:

For terms expiring May 18, 2022:
