

"Just more than half of U.S. workers—51%—said they were satisfied with their jobs in 2017, the highest level since 2005, according to a new report from The Conference Board, a business-research group. Over the past seven years, Americans report feeling better about their pay along with a greater sense of job security, both features of an economy with a low unemployment rate and a long decline in layoffs."



"American manufacturers are on a roll: Business conditions surged in August to a 14-year high, according to a survey of industry executives. The Institute for Supply Management said its manufacturing index jumped to a 14-year high of 61.3% last month from 58.1% in July. Economists surveyed by MarketWatch had forecast the index to total 57.9%. Readings over 50% indicate more companies are expanding instead of shrinking."



"[A] new survey reveals that blue-collar workers may be the most optimistic folks in America. Eighty-five percent say they see their lives heading in the right direction. Conducted by the Harris Poll and commissioned by Express Employment Professionals, a staffing company, the survey found that three of four blue-collar workers call their jobs 'a good career path.' Four of five agree that 'my job provides a good living to financially support my family.' Eighty-six percent say they are 'satisfied' with their jobs, and 90% are 'proud' of the work they do."



"On Labor Day, we celebrate the accomplishments of the American workforce, a record 156 million strong. Working Americans and American job seekers have an economy that is creating family-sustaining jobs and the opportunities for a brighter future. Our economy is best defined by one word: optimism."



"The results have been seen in lower tax rates, fewer regulations, and a booming economy. Second quarter GDP growth was just revised up to 4.2 percent ... Not surprisingly, minority unemployment rates are near record lows. Household income is up and consumer confidence is the highest it has been in 18 years. The Trump administration has also been holding other countries accountable for unfair trade practices and is renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement."



"Thanks to tax cuts and reining in costly regulations, the economic sun is shining in the United States. American firms are looking to make hay by increasing investment and expanding production, and that is good for American workers."



"As we approach Labor Day this year, the American worker truly has something to celebrate. The U.S. unemployment rate as of July was 4.7 percent, the lowest it has been in over thirty years. There are more Americans working today than at any other time in the history of our country, with over 130 million employed."