"Today, the Trump administration has laid out a path to responsible energy production that is good for jobs and household budgets. This sets us up to be competitive for years to come. Congress will continue to work with the administration to connect America's energy boom to consumers and communities."

"The Obama Administration's so-called 'Clean Power Plan' offered a typical story from that era. An innocent-seeming name. A pleasant-sounding objective. But underneath, an intrusive regulatory regime -- built not on effective policy, but on far-left ideology. That's why I am so grateful that, today, the Trump Administration is unveiling its plan to pare back this unfair, unworkable, and likely illegal policy."

"@realDonaldTrump promised he'd end radical Obama job-killing regulations on coal and restore American energy independence, and he's delivering with today's action. This means more jobs, lower prices, and a return of American strength!"

"The so-called 'Clean Power Plan' would have cost Wyoming's energy workers their jobs and devastated communities throughout the state. The Obama-era regulation wasn't just bad policy, it was illegal. I am glad the Trump administration is focused on getting this punishing rule off the books."

"By rolling back stifling, Obama-era regulations, the Trump Administration is giving power back to the States to decide what's best for their industries. It's refreshing to have a President who is committed to fighting for American workers and growing the economy, instead of a political agenda."

"This is encouraging news for Indiana, where we prioritize affordable, reliable, and clean energy. The misguided 'Clean Power Plan' failed to consider input from energy producing states like ours, and mandated a burdensome one-size-fits-all approach."

"A very good day for Kentucky. I applaud @realDonaldTrump for continuing to roll back and working to end the Obama war on coal."

"The top-down, one-size-fits-all approach to environmental protection promoted by the Obama Administration would have increased electricity costs for many American families and businesses. The plan announced today is a much better option to ensure environmental protections without sacrificing the economic gains made under Republican leadership."

"I commend @realdonaldtrump on his #AffordableCleanEnergy plan. It puts an end to Obama's big-government Clean Power Plan. The new @EPA rule would empower MS to develop plans for modern, reliable & affordable power for all Mississippians."

"The previous administration's Clean Power Plan far overreached their authority to regulate power generation ... @EPAAWheeler is taking the right steps to propose new guidelines that do not pick winners and losers. It is right to restore the proper role of federal and state governments in regulating greenhouse gases."

"Obama admin's 'Clean Power Plan,' which amounted to a backdoor nat'l energy tax, would have raised energy costs for consumers & entrepreneurs. I'm glad to see @POTUS take things in a more productive direction for an all-of-the-above energy strategy and respect for states' needs."

"The new proposed ACE rule respects the rights of individual states in setting energy policies that work best for them. I support the current administration's goal of providing affordable energy to South Dakota families while at the same time working to protect our environment and natural resources."

"The CPP was a complete overreach by the federal government. Not only was the one-size-fits-all approach disastrous for West Virginia's coal industry, but there was also absolutely no consideration for the economic effects the plan would have on an energy-rich state like ours. I'm encouraged the EPA's newly proposed Affordable Clean Energy plan allows state input and clearly signals the War on Coal is over."

"In Wyoming, we know that a one-size-fits-all mandate isn't the best option, so I am glad the Trump Administration is working to provide flexibility for states, the energy industry and the entire nation by replacing the overly burdensome Clean Power Plan."

"The Obama Administration's war on affordable energy was not healthy for rural economies ... I thank Administrator Wheeler and the Trump Administration for its efforts to roll back this overreach and look forward to working with the EPA on reasonable efforts to keep our environment clean while producing energy necessary to power homes and businesses."

"I applaud Administrator Wheeler and the Trump administration for taking this necessary step to replace the Clean Power Plan (CPP). The rule was a blatant attack on states' rights and yet another example of overregulation by unelected federal bureaucrats."

"Today, the Trump Administration and Acting Administrator Wheeler proved that responsible energy production and environmental protection are not mutually exclusive by putting forth a proposed replacement rule that seeks to empower states, embrace new technologies and work with our experts on the ground to ensure that the United States continues to be a global leader in energy production and carbon emission reductions."


"The new Affordable Clean Energy rule will empower individual states to decide their own emissions standards and energy portfolios. I am pleased to see the Trump Administration taking action to rollback these restrictive regulations and lower costs for consumers."

"Since President Trump took office, his Administration has focused heavily on rolling back many of the overly burdensome regulations put in place by the previous regime – many of which push the boundaries of legality ... The EPA's new proposal is a far more realistic strategy that will more accurately interpret the bounds of the Clean Air Act and improve efficiency at power plants, all while empowering states and helping America achieve its goal of energy dominance."

"The Obama Administration's Clean Power Plan, which was implemented without Congressional approval, threatened countless jobs across the nation and millions of Americans' access to affordable energy. Appropriately, the Administration is taking action to rewrite this flawed rule, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to advance policies that support all-of-the-above responsible energy development."

 "I'm glad to see the Trump Administration return to the principles of cooperative federalism that have successfully and impressively reduced air pollution for decades. Rather than dictate burdensome, top-down mandates on the states, the Affordable Clean Energy rule seeks to empower states to continue reducing emissions in ways that best fit their various energy portfolios."

"The Trump Administration's Affordable Clean Energy rule is a responsible proposal that will protect the environment while also protecting the pocketbooks of American families and businesses from skyrocketing energy prices."

"The Affordable Clean Energy Rule rolls back overreaching regulations from Washington and returns power to the states within the parameters of the Clean Air Act. The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan would have cost up to $292 billion and caused double digit electricity price increases in 40 states. Thanks to tax reform and this new rule, Kansans can see lower utility rates while we continue working to reduce emissions."

"Like most Obama-era rules, the Clean Power Plan was less about science and more about pushing an extreme environmental agenda at the expense of hard-working Americans. I applaud President Trump for taking yet another step toward sensible environmental policies that will keep us healthy while helping the economy grow."

"I welcome the Trump administration's Affordable Clean Energy rule which would replace the burdensome, costly Obama-era mandate with a rule designed to empower states, promote American energy dominance, and protect our environment."

"The Clean Power Plan was a clear overstep of authority by EPA, and I am pleased President Trump took action against this rule. This Administration has shown its support for ours and other energy-rich states who are not best represented by unelected bureaucrats in Washington."

"The former Administration's energy policies were hurting our economy and not helping the environment ... A new Affordable Clean Energy Rule will wisely balance protecting our environment, keeping electricity costs low for New Mexicans, and continue to keep good-paying jobs in high unemployment areas."

"I'm thrilled that EPA Administrator Wheeler has proposed the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule to replace the CPP which would negatively impact Oklahoma's economy, energy grid, and workforce. Oklahoma is an all-the-above energy state and I'm proud to work in tandem with an administration who also believes in a consumer-driven market for our country."

"Good news for Western #PA jobs, energy, manufacturing, and household budgets—all things threatened by the Obama admin's devastating 'Clean Power Plan.' The new ACE rule replaces the CPP, gives power back to the states, and properly protects both our environment AND our economy!"


"The EPA's proposal to replace the Obama Administration's so-called Clean Power Plan with the Affordable Clean Energy rule is a significant step towards reversing one of the most costly, burdensome, and ineffective regulations issued by the previous administration. It marks a return to sanity and to the rule of law when it comes to environmental regulations."


 "Glad @POTUS @realDonaldTrump is rolling back the disastrous so-called Clean Power Plan. This Obama era rule threatened thousands of West Virginia jobs and would have increased energy prices for consumers."

"I applaud this important step by the Trump Administration to replace the damaging Obama Clean Power Plan with a rule that will return flexibility to the states and to our coal industry ... I'm encouraged by the Trump Administration's continuous efforts to protect our coal and fossil fuel industry across the country and especially in Wyoming."

"The ACE Rule would restore the rule of law and empower states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide modern, reliable, and affordable energy for all Americans. Today's proposal provides the states and regulated community the certainty they need to continue environmental progress while fulfilling President Trump's goal of energy dominance."


 


 "The Clean Power Plan was a federal overreach of the EPA's authority that threatened to erode the baseload reliability of our nation's power grid and hurt consumers with higher electric rates. This new rule proposes a more balanced approached that will enable states like North Dakota to pursue an all-of-the-above energy strategy in an environmentally sound manner without the burdensome constraints of a one-size-fits-all federal policy."

"President Trump has followed through on his promise to get rid of the Clean Power Plan and use American energy to fuel economic growth. The ACE rule will help West Virginia big time and will bring back energy jobs like you can't imagine."

"I, along with many in Wyoming, have been concerned about the Clean Power Plan ... The rule is flawed in many ways and I am glad that it is being worked on. I look forward to a thoughtful approach to improvement."

 "Today's decision to replace the burdensome so-called Clean Power Plan with the new proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule is a big win for Arkansans. In a State like Arkansas, where over half of the electricity is responsibly generated from coal-fired power plants, the hit to Arkansas utility ratepayers pocketbooks would have been felt immediately."

"The EPA's proposal represents a crucial step in restoring law and order. The Affordable Clean Energy rule makes important strides in reversing the Obama-era Power Plan. Our coalition will closely examine the proposal and continue to support President Trump's administration in implementing this important change to protect West Virginia coal miners and those who depend upon their success."

"@realDonaldTrump has once again demonstrated his commitment to #WestVirginia families by proposing a smart and fair #energy plan that will continue to fuel the #WVcomeback!"

"We're pleased that the proposed rule recognizes and respects the environmental and energy needs of each state."


 


 "We are pleased that EPA has proposed a rule to replace the Clean Power Plan, especially one that allows the states to play a crucial role in determining which emission reduction measures make sense. In contrast to the illegal Clean Power Plan, EPA's proposal is based on a correct reading of the Clean Air Act."

"The EPA's proposed replacement rule is a huge improvement over the so-called Clean Power Plan, which is almost certainly illegal and would be incredibly costly to consumers if implemented."

Today's announcement is an important step toward a more collaborative process that fits within EPA's statutory authority and will result in achievable progress through more practical, state-driven programs. This revised approach will help continue the trend of lower electric power sector emissions while preserving America's energy edge and respecting environmental law."

 "Economically and environmentally, the Trump administration is completely justified to undo President Obama's climate legacy that grossly exceeded the statutory authority of @EPA. The so-called 'Clean Power Plan' would have spelled higher energy bills for families, individuals, and businesses."

"This is a long overdue return to the law, and the Obama administration's policies were a stretch."

"The good news just keeps on coming from the Trump Administration."