President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:



Mr. King is the current President of the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education. Previously, he served as President and CEO of the Arizona Community Foundation and Chancellor of the State University of New York System. Mr. King worked as a District Attorney in San Luis Obispo, California, and Rochester, New York, before serving three terms in the New York State Legislature and later as Monroe County Executive. He also served in the New York Governor's Office as Budget Director and Director of the Office of Regulatory Reform. He was also a nine-year member of the White House Commission on Presidential Scholars, appointed by President George W. Bush. Mr. King earned his B.A. from Trinity College and J.D. from Vanderbilt University School of Law.



Dr. Gunter is a physician and healthcare executive. Currently, he leads Jeffrey Ross Gunter, MD, Inc., which provides rural community dermatological healthcare. Dr. Gunter was a Clinical Professor of Medicine (Dermatology) at the Keck Medicine Center of University of Southern California (USC) and Chief Resident of Dermatology at the Los Angeles County+USC Medical Center. Dr. Gunter received his A.B. in Psychology from University of California, Berkeley and M.D. from Keck Medicine Center of USC. He speaks Spanish, French, and Dutch.



Mr. Billingslea currently serves as Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing of the Treasury Department. Previously, he worked for Deloitte as a Managing Director; the Department of Defense as Deputy Under Secretary of the Navy, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Special Operations/Low Intensity Conflict, and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Negotiations Policy; the NATO Headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, as Assistant Secretary General for Defense Investment; and the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations as a senior staff member in national security affairs. Mr. Billingslea is the recipient of the Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public Service, the Cross of Merit of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic, and the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana of Estonia. Mr. Billingslea earned his B.A. from Dartmouth College and M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.


---

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint and designate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:



---

President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to designate the following individual to a key position in his Administration:



Mr. Bierman currently serves as a United States Senate confirmed Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development.