

"The unemployment rate ticked up in June from an 18-year low, but steady hiring and an increased number of job seekers suggest a strong labor market drew in Americans from the sidelines. U.S. nonfarm payrolls rose a seasonally adjusted 213,000 in June, the Labor Department said Friday."



"Fewer new jobless claims suggest that layoffs are rare, and that job creation is strong. The total number of people receiving unemployment benefits of all durations is running at the lowest levels in 44 years, according to Thursday's release."



"U.S. economy grew modestly over the winter—at a 2.2% annual rate in January through March—but seems to be ramping up further this spring. Growth is on track to exceed a 4% pace in the three months ending in June, which would be the fastest of any quarter in almost four years."



"Americans continue to recognize a robust U.S. job market, with 65% saying that it is a good time to find a 'quality job,' similar to 67% in May. These are the highest readings in Gallup's 17-year history of tracking this measure of Americans' views of the employment situation."



"American Manufacturers are experiencing record levels of confidence for their businesses, according to a recent survey conducted by the largest trade association for manufacturers. In the National Association of Manufacturers' (NAM) quarterly outlook survey published on Wednesday, 95.1 percent of manufacturers surveyed said they have a positive outlook for their companies, a record-high in the past 20 years."



"Small business optimism rose in May to its highest level in more than 30 years, helped by all-time highs in some key index components, the National Federation of Independent Business said Tuesday. Expectations for business expansion and reports of positive earnings trends hit record highs, while expectations for strong increases in real sales reached their highest since 1995. Reports of compensation increases also hit their highest in the history of the index."



"A report released by the University of Michigan on Friday showed a much bigger than expected improvement in U.S. consumer sentiment in the month of June. The report said the preliminary reading on the consumer sentiment index for June came in at 99.3 compared to the final May reading of 98.0. Economists had expected the index to inch up to 98.5."



"Americans' sentiment approached a 17-year high last week on increasingly upbeat views of the economy and personal finances, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed Thursday. Americans' views of the economy have been bolstered by an unemployment rate matching the lowest since 1969 and tax cuts that have fattened wallets, along with fuel prices that have cooled from a three-year high in May."



"Economic confidence among lower-income Americans has taken a recent leap, the latest evidence that benefits of the economic expansion are reaching a broader swath of workers.... In the University of Michigan's consumer-sentiment index, confidence among households in the bottom third income tier has risen 11.4 points since February, an IHS Markit analysis of sentiment figures shows."



"The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index surged to the 2nd-highest level since 2004 ... The IBD/TIPP Economic Optimism Index rose 2.5 points to 56.4 in July, just off February's 13-year high of 56.7."



"Overall enrollment in the country's food stamp program has dropped to its lowest level in more than eight years as the economy continues to improve and the Trump administration attempts to tackle fraud in the program."



"Over $300 billion was repatriated to the U.S. in the first quarter, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) -- the most on record ... While the BEA keeps the names and sums of corporations repatriating confidential, the latest data appear to show CEOs are likely sticking to their pledge to bring more money earned overseas back to the U.S. promised shortly after the tax plan was signed by President Trump in late December 2017."



"U.S. retail sales rose in May by the most in six months, exceeding forecasts and bolstering expectations for an acceleration in economic growth this quarter. The value of overall sales advanced 0.8 percent from the prior month, double the median estimate of economists and following an upwardly revised 0.4 percent gain in April, according to Commerce Department figures on Thursday."