Across our great Nation, families are being devastated and community resources are being stretched by the ongoing opioid crisis. With over two million Americans expected to be addicted to opioids this year and over 300,000 deaths from overdoses involving opioids since 2000, the Administration is committed to leveraging every available tool in its arsenal to combat the scourge of opioid misuse and provide needed relief to American families and patients. In October of last year, the Administration declared a nationwide Public Health Emergency, and in March of this year, the President announced his groundbreaking Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand, which attacks the opioid crisis with a whole-of-government approach.
Addressing the opioid crisis has been a top priority of the President since day one, and the Administration welcomes legislation that complements its efforts to end the opioid crisis. The Administration strongly supports House passage of bipartisan bills to protect patients enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid, create targeted programs for at-risk populations, expand access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders, and provide resources for States and communities struggling to deal with the scale of the opioid crisis.
H.R. 5797, the Individuals in Medicaid Deserve Care that is Appropriate and Responsible in its Execution (IMD CARE) Act, would allow States to provide Medicaid services for individuals with opioid use disorders in Institutions for Mental Diseases. The Administration is already using existing Medicaid 1115 demonstration authority to enable States to use Medicaid resources for inpatient opioid abuse recovery services, and this bill would be consistent with this constructive policy.
H.R. 6082, the Overdose Prevention and Patient Safety Act, may improve care for patients with substance use disorders by updating information sharing to better align with existing HIPAA regulations. Patients suffering or recovering from opioid addiction must access services from doctors, treatment facilities, and hospitals across an increasingly complex healthcare system. This bill would enhance coordinated care while protecting patient privacy. The Administration is supportive of this effort and looks forward to working with the Congress to ensure that this bill does not have unintended effects.substance use disorders by updating information sharing to better align with existing HIPAA regulations. Patients suffering or recovering from opioid addiction must access services from doctors, treatment facilities, and hospitals across an increasingly complex healthcare system. This bill would enhance coordinated care while protecting patient privacy. The Administration is supportive of this effort and looks forward to working with the Congress to ensure that this bill does not have unintended effects.
H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act, combines a number of bipartisan initiatives that would improve Medicare and Medicaid and strengthen efforts to prevent and treat opioid abuse by patients enrolled in these health programs. The bill's Medicaid changes would protect vulnerable youth, enhance monitoring to detect irresponsible and abusive opioid prescribing, and encourage States to increase coverage of treatment for substance use disorders. H.R. 6 would also enable Medicare to encourage the use of safe and effective alternatives to opioids for pain, screen enrollees for opioid abuse, require secure prescribing of opioids to prevent diversion and misuse, and facilitate coverage of medication-assisted treatment and telehealth services for opioid use disorders. Finally, this bill would support the development of non-addictive opioid alternatives, provide grants to local public health laboratories that detect synthetic opioids, and expand the ability of medical professionals to prescribe medications that help patients overcome addiction. The Administration appreciates the Congress's efforts to prevent opioid overdose deaths and looks forward to working to refine some parts of this bill, such as the proposed pilot on testing drugs for adulterants.
These initiatives represent bold, evidence-based steps to prevent and treat opioid abuse, and will help save the lives of countless Americans. The Administration commends the House on taking up these important bills and looks forward to working together to take all necessary steps to tackle the opioid crisis.
.