"Gina Haspel is a tremendous choice to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. She would bring more direct, hard-earned experience to the role of @CIA director than any leader in the agency's history."

"[Haspel is] without a doubt, the most qualified person the president could have chosen to lead the CIA and the most prepared nominee in its 70-year history."

"Haspel is a consummate professional whose record of accomplishment, bipartisan support, and clear love of country make her an excellent choice to lead our nation's top intelligence agency."

"Gina Haspel is a career intelligence officer who has served over 30 years with the CIA, and combated both communist threats and terrorist organizations like Al-Qaeda and ISIS. She is perhaps the most highly qualified person ever nominated for this crucial national security position. Her nomination has the support of six former CIA Directors who have served under presidents of both parties, and I look forward to her rapid confirmation on the Senate floor."

"I have known Ms. Haspel for the 10 years I have been on the Committee and have had the opportunity to work with her over the years and even visit her out in the field. I can report to you that during this time I have always found Ms. Haspel to be open, forthcoming, and truthful."

"A well-led Central Intelligence Agency is critical to keeping Americans safe. Gina Haspel is an incredibly experienced and qualified nominee to serve as @CIA Director, and I look forward to supporting her nomination."

"As CIA Director, I have no doubt Gina Haspel will provide all the facts decision makers need to address the security challenges we face."

"Gina Haspel has more than 3 decades of nonpartisan CIA experience during the administrations of President Reagan, H.W. Bush, Clinton, W. Bush, & Obama. Haspel is well-qualified to be CIA Director - she deserves to be confirmed."

"Opponents of the Haspel nomination for CIA who voted for former Director Brennan under Obama are going to have to explain double standard for Trump and Haspel."

"It's time to put the destructive partisanship aside and confirm Gina Haspel as CIA Director."

"Gina Haspel should be confirmed as the first woman head of the CIA. She is tough, experienced and backed by former Obama intelligence officials."

 "It is time for Senate Dems to stop playing political games with our national security & support the nomination of Gina Haspel, the first woman ever nominated to be @CIA Director. She is a distinguished 33yr career veteran of the agency & extremely qualified to lead her peers."

"Acting Director Haspel is a dedicated public servant who has demonstrated she is qualified to head the CIA. Using her vast experience and knowledge, she took the steps to confront terrorists and protect the lives of countless Americans. President Trump picked the best person to run the CIA and I urge the Senate to set aside petty partisan politics and quickly confirm her as Director of the CIA."


"Essential that Senate confirm Gina Haspel to head CIA. True patriot. Dedicated American. Unequaled CIA experience and achievements. We need her leading the CIA."

"Gina Haspel will make a great CIA Director. She is a 33 year veteran of the agency who will provide the leadership necessary to confront emerging threats to America's national security."

"Gina Haspel has dedicated her life to serving this country, and her 30+ year career in the @CIA uniquely qualifies her to lead. Proud to support the first female DCIA."

"No one is better prepared, more focused, or more capable to carry out that mission than is Gina Haspel. Mr. Chairman, Gina is a proven leader who knows the agency and the threats we face. She is ideally suited to become the next and first female director of the CIA."

 "Ms. Haspel, as has been noted, is without question the most qualified person ever nominated for this position. For 33 years she has worked to defend America from those who would harm us."




"Very effective opening statement from Haspel."

"Consensus seems to be that Haspel, despite being undercover for 30+ years, did a good job holding her ground and answering Senators' questions."

"Wow [Gina] Haspel rocked that hearing."

"Gina Haspel is a strong, intelligent woman of integrity who has unquestionable qualifications to serve as our nation's next CIA director ... I urge all senators to put partisan bickering and theatrics aside, focus on what is best for our national security, and swiftly confirm Haspel to be our next CIA Director."

: "Excellent opening statement from Haspel."

"Haspel has had a long, successful career battling America's traditional enemies – most especially the Russians – along with newer threats like ISIS and other organizations engaging in radical Islamic terrorism. She's also earned broad, bipartisan support from former intelligence professionals who understand both her tenacity and intellect."

"After 32 years undercover, this is one of the first times we have heard Gina Haspel's voice. She is speaking steadily and deliberately in her open statement."

"CIA nominee Gina Haspel is handling herself admirably at her nomination hearing. Serious, composed, disciplined, experienced."

"Gina Haspel was fantastic in open session. She exceeded expectations ... Confirmation on track."