

The Administration supports passage of the Senate amendment to H.R. 268, sponsored by Senator Shelby, the End the Shutdown and Secure the Border Act. Most importantly, this commonsense, compromise legislation addresses the immediate security and humanitarian crisis at our southern border. It also provides legal certainty for hundreds of thousands of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and Temporary Protected Status (TPS) recipients, provides additional disaster relief to impacted communities, immediately reopens the Federal Government and funds it through the remainder of fiscal year (FY) 2019, and sets the stage for broader, permanent immigration reforms.

To physically secure our southern border, the bill includes $5.7 billion for a steel barrier system, including embedded investments in technology and roads, in the priority areas on the southern border designated by professionals from the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

In addition, this legislation provides critical funding to address several other needs at our southern border, including:


In order to build the trust, goodwill, and bipartisan support necessary to begin real immigration reform, the Shelby Amendment provides three years of legislative relief for approximately 700,000 DACA recipients brought to the United States unlawfully as children by their parents. This relief would prevent these DACA recipients from being deported and continue to allow them access to work permits and Social Security numbers. This legislation also provides a three-year extension of TPS for the over 300,000 immigrants whose protected status is currently facing expiration.

In addition, the Shelby Amendment provides appropriations for FY 2019 that would immediately reopen the Federal Government for the American people, and provides disaster relief to impacted communities. While the Administration remains concerned with the overall discretionary funding levels included in this bill, and with disaster spending that is unnecessary and premature, it supports this compromise approach as part of legislation that addresses the crises at the southern border.

.