"Hang tough on China, President @realDonaldTrump. Don't back down. Strength is the only way to win with China."

"Not surprised #China is trying to go back on changes they had previously agreed to For years they have had counterparts so desperate for a deal they allowed them to get away with this @realDonaldTrump is the first to ever pose a credible threat to walk away from a bad deal"

"I applaud the President for standing firm. I don't like tariffs any more than anybody else, but I absolutely think we have bipartisan support for standing up for American interests on trade."

"President Trump is right, China needs to honor its commitments."

"China has not negotiated in good faith, and @POTUS is right: they have more to lose."

"China's cheating has hurt American workers for far too long. Tariffs brought China to the negotiating table and now that we're there, the President must secure real changes to level the playing field."

"I commend the Trump administration for entering into these difficult and very important negotiations with China and I encourage the administration to stay strong and to pursue long-term meaningful structural changes in that relationship."

"I completely support President @realDonaldTrump's approach in trade negotiations with China. This is the last, best chance for America and the world to get China to play by the rules."

"China has been stealing our intellectual property. We need to ensure the interests of American companies are a part of the trade agreement – not an afterthought."
"Our strong economy puts the U.S. in a position of strength. We have maximum leverage to fix longstanding trade concerns with China."

"@realDonaldTrump is right to hold strong on #China and I'm glad senators from across the aisle agree. China has stolen our technological edge and is threatening us in defense, #cybersecurity and in space."

"Tariffs are the last resort, but China has not been allowing fair free trade. We need a level playing field for our farmers and workers"

"At this point in time, I think we have to show China that we do mean business."

"China for decades has taken advantage of our lax trade policy. They won't walk away from their biggest customer. I'm glad @realDonaldTrump keeps fighting for the best trade deal he can for U.S. workers. When America stands strong, the world stays safe. We must stay the course."

"We've lost 50% of our market share this past year. If our cotton farmers compete on an even playing field, we'll win every day and twice on Sunday! I support @POTUS 100% in holding China accountable for cheating, stealing, and overall unfair practices."

"The President has had no hesitation about using the tools that are available to him as the chief executive to make these decisions. Look, he's not in it … as some sort of game. He is in it to win for the American people, the American worker."




: "You know, frankly, I think President Trump was right to call [China's] bluff."

"President Trump on Sunday announced additional incoming tariffs on China, reminding Beijing that its days of negotiating with weak counterparts are over, at least as far as it concerns the United States."

"America's manufacturers and their workers can breathe a sigh of relief that the president isn't being coerced by the import lobby into abandoning the very leverage that brought Beijing to the negotiating table."

"While previous administrations have talked tough on China, the Trump administration has taken aggressive action to stop the unfair treatment of American industries and finally level the playing field."

"If President Trump follows through with his threat to increase tariffs on imported Chinese goods from 10 percent to 25 percent unless China complies with its fair trade obligations, it will be a healthy development in U.S.-China relations and good for U.S. foreign policy broadly."

: "This President, standing up today and saying to Xi Jinping that, you know, you can renege, you can do whatever you wish, but there will be consequences. This is the man we elected period. This is a great president."

: "This is an example of the president doing exactly what he should do, protect our economy."

"Excellent decision by @realDonaldTrump! No other president has had the guts to take on the China challenge. #AmericaNowandForever"

"A tough U.S. policy is necessary to prepare a better defense against Chinese economic aggression. U.S. officials should send a clear message to Beijing's bureaucracy: No more theft or outrageous subsidies, or else the tariffs remain."

 
"The fact remains the reset of U.S.-China trade was long overdue. Trump knows it, and so does China. The U.S. has waited for almost 20 years for China to follow international rules on trade. That's over."

: "China is up to its old tricks on trade, but it's learning the hard way that there's a new sheriff in town: President Trump."

"Unless China stops cheating, no deal may be the best deal of all. Trump understands this."

: "Trump was right to make this move, and he needs to stand firm in the face of political and market pressures to backtrack – and Republicans in Congress need to stand with him."