Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:



Ms. Bird is the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration (ASA) at the Department of Health and Human Services overseeing divisions such as human resources, IT, real estate and logistics, acquisitions, and grants management. Previously, Catherine served as ASA's Associate Deputy General Counsel. Catherine graduated from Baylor University School of Law, 
.



Ms. Bekkering currently serves as the Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) Bureau for Economic Growth, Education, and Environment, with a concurrent appointment as USAID's Senior Coordinator for Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment. Bekkering has served in numerous offices in the Government, including the National Security Council under President George W. Bush and former Congressman Dana Rohrabacher's Washington, D.C., office. A native of Iowa, Bekkering graduated from Dordt College.



Mr. Feddo currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Investment Security. Before joining the Department of the Treasury, Mr. Feddo practiced law as a partner in the international trade group at Alston & Bird LLP. Mr. Feddo previously served with the Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Office of the General Counsel of the Navy, and the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Mr. Feddo previously clerked for the Honorable James T. Turner at the United States Court of Federal Claims. He received his juris doctor from George Washington University and bachelor's degree in aerospace engineering from the United States Naval Academy. Upon graduation from Annapolis, Mr. Feddo served as a nuclear submarine officer on the USS Salt Lake City and then with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service.

—

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for the remainder of a six-year term, expiring September 1, 2024:

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the United States Commission of the International Pacific Halibut Commission (United States and Canada):
