First Lady Melania Trump convened the Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs this morning in the State Dining Room of the White House.
The meeting focused on several programs within the Administration's agencies that closely align with the three pillars of the First Lady's initiative, Be Best – well-being of children, social media safety, and families affected by opioid abuse.

Mrs. Trump led the meeting and gave opening remarks, then called on Secretary DeVos of the Department of Education, Secretary Carson of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Secretary Azar and Admiral Giroir of the Department of Health and Human Services, Acting Administrator Gaynor of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and Administrator Green of the Agency for International Development to share information about programs that positively impact the lives of children both domestically and abroad.

Among the programs described were the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development's "Strong Families Initiative", which provides resources to caregivers and parents, helping to strengthen the family unit for children. The United States Department of Health and Human Services has a dedicated program focused on finding the best approaches to identifying and testing treatment procedures for infants experiencing neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome. Acting Administrator Pete Gaynor gave a presentation regarding the work the Federal Emergency Management Agency is doing to prepare children in cases of emergencies. Administrator Green gave a briefing on the United States Agency for International Development's youth integration and engagement efforts.

"Today was a great opportunity to hear from these agencies on the programs that most align with Be Best," said First Lady Melania Trump. "I am looking forward to working with the Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs to help children receive all the tools and support they need to be successful in life."

At the conclusion of the meeting, Mrs. Trump thanked the attending members and spoke briefly on future opportunities to work together.

Secretary Alex Azar, United States Department of Health and Human Services
Matt Dummermuth, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General, United States Department of Justice
Ms. A.T. Johnston, Deputy Assistant Secretary, United States Department of Defense
Acting Secretary David Bernhard, United States Department of Interior
Secretary Wilbur Ross, United States Department of Commerce
Patrick Pizzella, United States Department of Labor
Secretary Ben Carson, United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Betsy DeVos, United States Department of Education
Secretary Elaine Chao, United States Department of Transportation
Henry Darwin, Acting Deputy Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency
Pete Gaynor, Acting Administrator, FEMA
Ayanna Hudson, Director of Arts Education, NEA
Michelle Giuda, Assistant Secretary, United States Department of State
Dr. France A. Córdova, Director of the National Science Foundation
Administrator Mark Green, United States Agency for International Development
Barbara Stewart, CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service
Admiral Giroir, Assistant Secretary for Health, United States Department of Health and Human Services
Jamila Robinson, Office of National Drug Control Policy

The US Department of State
The US Department of Defense
The US Department of Justice
The US Department of Interior
The US Department of Commerce
The US Department of Labor
The US Department of Health and Human Services
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development
The US Department of Transportation
The US Department of Education
The US Environmental Protection Agency
The Federal Emergency Management Agency
The National Endowment for the Arts
The National Science Foundation
The US Agency for International Development
The Corporation for National and Community Service
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
The Office of National Drug Control Policy