 Are you all having a good time in Hanoi?

 How's it going, Mr. President?

 Everybody having a good time? Everybody? Jeff [Jeff Mason, Reuters]? I hope.



Chairman Kim, are you ready to denuclearize? Are you ready to give up your nuclear weapons?

 You'd better be careful.

 If I'm not willing to do that, I won't be here right now.

 That's a good answer. Wow. That might be the best answer you've ever heard. [
]



Are you willing to take concrete steps to denuclearize or not quite yet?

 That is what we are discussing right now. [
]

 And don't raise your voice, please. This isn't like dealing with Trump. [
]

 They all seem to be, you know, anxious to know.

 I think they're anxious, and they're calm.



Chairman Kim, are you discussing human rights with President Trump?

 We're discussing everything.

So I just want to thank everybody for being here. We're having very productive discussions. We'll see where it all goes. But we are having very productive discussions, and we appreciate it. I think we're having a press conference later on, and we'll then be heading out back to our respective homes.

But yes, I think we've had very, very productive discussions, and the relationship is as good as it's ever been. Better. I think better.

Is the time right for a discussion——

[
]

 Go ahead. Do you want to—you have to talk up. [
]



President Trump, is the time right for an end of the war with a political declaration?

 A political what?

Political statement ending the war. Is the time right for that?

 I think that no matter what happens, we're going to ultimately have a deal that's really good for Chairman Kim and his country and for us. I think, ultimately, that's what's going to happen. That's where it's all leading. It doesn't mean we're doing it in 1 day or 2 days, but it's all leading toward a very big success.

And I really believe that, with this great leadership, I really believe that North Korea is going to be very successful, and economically, it's going to be something very, very special.

Go ahead.

[
]



Chairman Kim, are you ready to allow the United States to have an office in Pyongyang? Are you ready for that step?

[
]

Is it better to leave—let the media go?

 Yes, I think we will. I think we will.

It's actually an interesting question though. I would like to actually hear that answer, because it's actually not a bad idea.

 Well, I think that is something which was welcomable.

Is it welcome? Today? It would be announced?

 I actually think it's a good idea. [
] Both ways. You know, both ways. I like the idea.

 If you would kindly give us more time between us, because, you know, 1 minute—even 1 minute—is more precious to us. Thank you.

 Thank you all very much. Thank you very much.