Pool Reports by 
, 
A lunch lid was called until 1:30 p.m.
Attendee list below.
Pool unexpectedly called at 4:45 p.m. for trip to Cabinet Room, where POTUS is meeting with African-American leaders ahead of reception this evening.
HUD Secretary Ben Carson walked by as pool held in hallway.
The WH sends the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will discuss his Administration's success in empowering members of the African-American community.
President Donald J. Trump
Jared Kushner, 
Brooke Rollins, 
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Nicole Frazier, 
Paula White, 
Scott Turner, 
Ashley Bell, 
Candace Owens, 
Terrence K. Williams
Isaiah Washington,
Lynette Hardaway
Rochelle Richardson
Pastor Darrell Scott
Kareem Lanier
Alveda King
Angela Stanton-King
Deneen Borelli, 
David Harris Jr., 
Robert Smith
Paris Dennard
Andre Berto, 
Jack Brewer,
Derrick Gradenigo
Marc Little
Bruce LeVell
Stacy Washington
Pool entered Cabinet Room at 5:22 p.m., with participants already seated for their meeting with POTUS on empowering African-Americans (attendee list sent in previous pool report).
Trump mentioned his successes including the pardon of Angela Stanton-King and criminal justice reform. The group was well dressed (likely for reception to follow) and enthusiastic, breaking into frequent applause and chants of "four more years!"
Trump's opening remarks were short, then he asked everyone at the table to introduce themselves. Everyone had praise for the president and for helping on issues of importance to them. A few, particularly Bruce LeVell and Candace Owens, had longer remarks critical of the media and Democrats.
"You lose a fortune being president," Trump said, adding he gives up his $400K presidential salary.
Please check transcript for quotes.
After introductions, Trump told the story of meeting with HBCU leaders each year because they had to come back to Washington to beg for funding. Trump said a bill just passed to provide 10 years of funding.
Trump then slipped into campaign mode, talking about a rally with "Pocahontas" with a couple thousand in the crowd, compared to his much larger rallies.
Trump mentioned the best black unemployment numbers, then moved to coronavirus, saying he got no credit from the media for containing it, claiming he was called a "racist" for closing off Asian countries. Said of the 15 people with coronavirus, just one is "quite sick" and the rest are recovering.
Mentioned gaffes by Biden, mixing up the names of states, but said if he made such a mistake it would be career-ending. "I never get credit" for anything, Trump said.
Trump said his coronavirus press conference last night was quite good and calming. But Sen. Schumer said he was terrible.
"I think it's an incredible achievement what our county's done," Trump said in the context of coronavirus. Trump said he took a lot of heat for closing the border but it turned out to be the right thing to do.
Trump criticized the "fake news" media and Democrats at length, mentioning coronavirus funding and impeachment. "This is really above politics," Trump then said of funding to combat coronavirus.
Coronavirus will one day disappear, Trump said. The U.S. is working with other countries, and just 15 cases in the U.S. is a miracle, he said.
Trump noted the NBC reporter had left the room and called the network racist. The president then turned to the black vote, the 2016 election, and criminal justice reform.
At 6:21 the group gathered and stood behind Trump for a prayer.
Asked about the markets, Trump said the press is out of line, said the country is pulling together and Democrats should not make this a political issue.
The event ended at 6:23 p.m. Headed to reception now in East Room.
Pool entered the foyer at about 6:30 p.m. to the Marine Band playing Edelweiss. The East Room is packed with invitees sipping out of wine glasses, standing or sitting at small round tables with white floral centerpieces and dark green and gold tablecloths.
There is a stage and podium set up at the far end of the room. This event is open press.
The White House sends the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks to African American community, business, and faith leaders who have traveled from across the country to attend the National African American History Month Reception at the White House.
The Reception will recognize past, present, and future African American leaders who are examples of heroism, patriotism, and enterprise. The President will not only display our national pride in African American history, but will also showcase his Administration's policies that continue to empower African Americans across our great country.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House
President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump
Trump Administration
Steven Mnuchin, Department of the Treasury
Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary
Administrator Jovita Carranza, Small Business Administration
External Participants
Gertrude Jane Holliday Stone, Houston's National African American Museum
Alphonso Hill Jr., Eagle Scout
Hundreds of African American leaders
The White House sends the following:
…
The First Lady and I are thrilled to welcome you to the White House as we proudly celebrate African-American History Month!
…
In every generation, African Americans have enriched our culture, deepened our faith, strengthened our communities, sustained our values, raised up our conscience, and called our nation to greatness.
…
Throughout our history, African-American citizens have battled for equality, justice, and liberty—we revere freedom fighters like Frederick Douglass, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks, Martin Luther King and Thurgood Marshall.
…
In every field, every generation, and every calling, African-Americans have lifted up our nation to new heights – and, like all citizens, you are entitled to a government that puts your needs, your interests, and your families FIRST.
…
African-American unemployment has reached an all-time low. African American YOUTH unemployment has reached a record low. The African American poverty rate has plummeted to the lowest rate in history. Wages for African-American workers have increased by $2,400 per year.
…
My administration is fighting for great jobs, great schools, great healthcare, and a truly great future for African-Americans and ALL Americans.
We signed legislation that achieved PERMANENT funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities. I have called on Congress to give every child a chance to attend a great school of their CHOICE.
…
Our historic tax cuts created nearly 9,000 Opportunity Zones to promote investment in distressed and forgotten neighborhoods. I signed Criminal Justice Reform into law—helping former prisoners get a second chance at life.
…
I will not rest, I will not stop, I will not give up, until we have delivered equal and abundant opportunity to every neighborhood across our land.
Reception is open press so pooler will only send color. Please check transcript for quotes.
Trump entered the room at 6:56 p.m. to chants of "four more years!" After praising FLOTUS, Trump brought up HHS Secretary Alex Azar to talk briefly about coronavirus efforts.
Many in the crowd held up their phones to record Trump's more formal comments that began at 7:00 p.m.
Eagle Scout Alphonso Hill Jr., wearing his scout uniform, made brief comments. Trump then presented Hill with a flag that he said was flown aboard Marine One.
Remarks ended at 7:29 p.m. and Trump appeared to step off the stage and greet people in the audience.
Pool is holding at the back of the East Room while guests mingle.
A travel/photo lid was called at 7:48 p.m. Good night all.