Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:



Philip Calabrese currently serves as a Judge on the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas. Before taking the bench in 2019, Judge Calabrese was a partner at Porter, Wright, Morris & Arthur, LLP, where he co-chaired the firm's class action practice. Judge Calabrese also serves as an adjunct professor at Case Western Reserve University School of Law. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Calabrese served as a law clerk to Judge Alice M. Batchelder of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. He earned his B.A., 
, from the College of the Holy Cross, and his J.D., 
, from Harvard Law School.



James Knepp currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the Northern District of Ohio. Before taking the bench in 2010, Judge Knepp spent over 15 years as a civil litigation attorney with Robison, Curphey & O'Connell, LLC in Toledo, Ohio. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Knepp served as a law clerk to Judge John W. Potter of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Judge Knepp earned his B.A., 
 from Mount Union College, his M.A. from Bowling Green State University, and his J.D.,
, from the University of Toledo College of Law, where he was a member of the editorial board for the 
.



Brett H. Ludwig currently serves as a United States Bankruptcy Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Before taking the bench in 2017, Judge Ludwig was a partner at Foley & Lardner LLP in Milwaukee, where he focused on commercial litigation and dispute resolution and chaired the firm's 
practice. Judge Ludwig has also taught at the Marquette University Law School. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Ludwig served as a law clerk to Judge George Fagg of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Judge Ludwig earned his B.A. with highest honors from the University of Wisconsin, and his J.D., 
 from the University of Minnesota School Law, where he served as the managing editor for the 
.



Michael J. Newman currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge in the Southern District of Ohio. Before taking the bench in 2011, Judge Newman was a partner at Dinsmore & Shohl LLP in Cincinnati, where he focused on labor and employment law and led the firm's 
 appellate litigation program
Upon graduation from law school, Judge Newman served as a law clerk to Judge Nathaniel Jones of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Judge Newman earned his B.F.A. from New York University and his J.D., 
from American University Washington College of Law.



Peter McCoy is a partner at McCoy & Stokes LLC in Charleston, South Carolina, where his practice focuses on criminal defense in both State and Federal courts, as well as family, personal injury, and probate law. Mr. McCoy currently serves as a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, a position he has held since 2010. Before founding Stokes & McCoy, Mr. McCoy was an Assistant Solicitor in the Ninth Circuit Solicitor's Office in Charleston. Mr. McCoy earned his B.A. from Hampden-Sydney College and his J.D. from Regent University School of Law.



Anna Ruzinski currently serves as the Chief of Police for the Menomonee Falls Police Department, a position she has held for the past 12 years. Chief Ruzinski served the first 26 years of her career in the Milwaukee Police Department. Chief Ruzinski graduated from the Federal Bureau of Investigation National Academy in 2009, and she holds a B.S. in Organizational Security and Management from the University of Phoenix.