Pool Reports by 
, 
Motorcade is rolling to Las Vegas Convention Center, where POTUS is hosting his third campaign rally in as many days, at 11:23 am.
(Counter)Programming note: The Nevada caucus is tomorrow.
Rally is open press.
[
]
The president wrapped up at 2:04 p.m. It was by far the longest of the three rallies this week.
Motorcade is rolling for the airport and the flight to JBA at 2:12 pm.
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 2:30 pm. POTUS was boarding as pool climbed out of vans. Wheels up shortly.
AF1 landed at JBA at 9:11 pm. The flight was uneventful with no visitors or cupcakes.
POTUS disembarked at 9:26 pm and gave the pool a wave and a thumbs up before climbing into Marine One.
And that concludes this four-day wild West swing. Thanks to WH press & advance staff for getting us what we needed on this trip. Handing off to in-town pool.
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from your local print pooler.
We are at the Las Vegas Convention Center where POTUS is expected to speak at noon. But first Vice President Mike Pence just said, "Hello, Nevada." and "It is great to be back in the Silver State."
The room is packed and chanting "Four more years."
It is 11:38 a.m.
Wi-Fi at Las Vegas Convention Center is spotty so you may want to watch on c-span and it is open press.
Pence bright up Democratic debate. "That wasn't a Democratic debate. That was a demolition derby."
Also says Trump won the debate.
Music soundtrack included "Con Te Partiro," "Simply the best," "Rising Sun," "Macho Man"
Your pooler has asked for information on tickets sold and capacity with no information.
So Watch @parscale tweets after event.
At 12:18 POTUS walks on stage.
POTUS
On caucuses
"I hear their computers are all messed up just like they were in Iowa."
NV is "a state I love"
"I have a beautiful building down the road."
Riffed on Nevada pronunciation
Noted that the rally here was booked with "almost no notice"
I will tweet photo
As always, please check quotes
Trump invited a number of people on stage, including alumni for Miracle on Ice team.
Said "fake news" at least five times
Lots of talk about Democratic candidates
"Mini Mike"
"How about that Pocahontas screaming at him?"
"She lied about her heritage"
Bloomberg "He was gasping for breath. I can't breathe" holding onto his neck
"Bernie's too emotional"
"Biden's angry."
"Who is he?" On Tom Steyer
And "he"s a fake"
Nominee "can't be Buttigieg. Alfred E. Newman"
Introduced "Mr and Mrs Sheldon Adelson"
"We want to thank the Adelsons"
Thanked Nevada Republican central committee
"You better win, Michael" to state chair Michael McDonald
"We almost won this state"
Praise for area unions
"Who in this audience is Hispanic?"
Cheers
Signs
"Text Vamos" to 88022
Latinos for Trump
Women for Trump
Hat: Make Liberals Cry Again
Please check quotes for accuracy
He turns to Yucca Mountain, which he opposes in 2020
"Why should you have nuclear waste in your back yard?"
"Sheldon, do you have someone at your newspaper who can write?"
Discussed illegal immigration
Boos
Someone needed medics.
"These are strong people" trump said or front-row fans
Mentioned four killed allegedly by undocumented immigrant in Nevada
3 MS 13 members killed a man in Las Vegas
Please check quotes
Trump said something about the Raiders , but I could not make it out.
Trump actually talked about his son Barron, who is very tall.
The back of the room has thinned out.
$130 million for Nellie AFB
"We are standing up for the people of Nevada"
Mentioned Hoover Dam"
We are out of here at 2:04 with Trump still talking
Motorcade arrived at McCarran at 2:28
Did not see POTUS board plane or AF1 take off.
Thanks for following along for the ride.
It is 2:43
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 9:42 p.m. President Trump exited shortly after, wearing a dark overcoat.
The president waved but did not respond to questions. He walked into the residence at 9:45 p.m.
At 10:02 p.m. we have a lid. Have a good weekend everyone.