Pool Reports by 
, 
The president two minutes ago tweeted:
"I will be having a news conference today at 3:00 P.M., The White House. Topic: CoronaVirus! "
A lunch lid has been declared until 1:15 p.m.
Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool Report # 3
From WH Press Office; note presence of Mark Meadows, described as incoming White House chief of staff
Today, President Donald J. Trump and several members of the Coronavirus Taskforce will meet in the Cabinet Room with industry executives as part of the Whole-of-America response to COVID-19.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Mark Meadows, 
Christopher Liddell, 
Jared Kushner, 
Marc Short, 
Larry Kudlow,
Ambassador Debbie Birx, 
Secretary Alex Azar,
Admiral Brett Giroir,
Administrator Seema Verma,
Dr. Stephen Hahn, 
Adam Boehler,
Richard Ashworth,
Brian Cornell,
Doug McMillon,
Tom Polen,
Stephen Rusckowski, 
Matt Sause,
David Pierre, 
Mark Stevenson,
Thomas Moriarty, 
Bruce Greenstein, 
The Rose Garden event lasted for about an hour and 13 minutes. As you all know it was open coverage and televised live.
POTUS was accompanied by what seemed a cast of zillions but in truth was 18 individuals led by VP Pence, Secretary Azar, Dr. Anthony Fauci, Ambassador Deborah Birx, Seema Verma and captains of industry; WH issued the full list earlier. Almost all were invited by the President to speak; in most cases their remarks were less than a minute each, except for Pence, Fauci, and Birx ,who spoke at length.
The partly cloudy weather was in the low 70s and a light breeze blew off some of the blossoms from a couple of crabapple trees flanking the oversized dais. Social distancing note: there were easily 200 individuals in the Rose Garden, likely more.
As telegraphed, POTUS declared a national state of emergency allowing the government to cut through red tape, getting FEMA into the act by freeing up about $42 billion of emergency funds to help expand and speech coronavirus testing.
He took questions for about 37 minutes, including multiple handoffs to Pence and Fauci and several other participants.
Various items:
"I don't take responsibility at all" for what some experts have argued was a sluggish and chaotic rampup to combating the crisis.
The President said there were rules and regs "from a different time" that had hampered progress but added that the problem is "not the fault of anybody." He said several times that his emergency declaration and other aggressive moves announced today and to come have kickstarted the government's counterattack and predicted positive results were only a matter of time - "a number of weeks."
Faunci said "there will be many more cases" but nobody was asked exactly how many citizens will test positive for the virus. POTUS said the next eight weeks are critical.
Trump said he hadn't been tested but seemed to hint strongly he probably will be although his physician doesn't see the need and he (POTUS) has zero symptoms. Again he said people shouldn't insist on testing unless their physician thinks it necessary.
Style note: After his brief remarks, the executive vice president of LHC Group, Bruce Greenstein, initiated an elbow bump with the President. "I like that, that's good," Trump noted.
A travel/photo lid has been declared. Goodnight to all.
Judd Deere passes along this readout:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. The two leaders discussed how France and the United States are working to combat COVID-19 as well as opportunities to work together to stop the pandemic. President Trump agreed to host a videoconference on the coronavirus with all of the G7 leaders early next week. President Trump and President Macron also discussed issues in the Middle East, including countering the Iranian regime's dangerous behavior and the situation in northwest Syria.