

 Trump: #Pence "has done an incredible job on health care, one of the best, if not THE best, in the country"
 
 


 Vice President @Mike_Pence assures Americans that the threat of #Coronavirus to Americans remains LOW!
 
: 


 Thx @realDonaldTrump & @VP's #coronavirus task force for keeping #US updated & informed. Next step - Congress shld support resources that allow the task force to keep up w their work & stay steps ahead of this virus. Stay up to date here: 
 
 


 President @realDonaldTrump, @VP Mike Pence, & the public health experts they have working with this Administration have acted quickly & proactively time protect American citizens. Stop the #hoax from Dems & #FakeNews #Unprecedented #RiskRemainsLow
 
 


 By creating the Coronavirus Task Force and appointing @VP to lead its efforts, @realDonaldTrump is sending the country a clear message that there is no higher priority than the health and security of the American people.
 
 


 JUST IN: VP Pence has announced additional US travel restrictions involving Iran, Italy and South Korea to combat the coronavirus spread; follows 1st death from the virus in the US. 
 


 1/ NEW: Vice President Mike Pence says the U.S. will ban foreign nationals who have visited Iran in the last 14 days from entering the U.S. because of the risk of coronavirus. 
 


 Vice President Mike Pence says the "average American does not need to go out and buy a mask," adding "we have more than 40 million masks available today"
 
: 


 WASHINGTON (AP) — Pence says some COVID-19 patients in US are in intensive care units, but says overall infection risk to Americans is low.
 
 


 Vice President Mike Pence: "We are urging Americans to not travel to the areas in Italy and the areas in South Korea that are most affected by the coronavirus"
 
 


 VP Pence announces State Department has added to its list of countries where Americans should not travel -- a Level 4 advisory -- the parts of Italy and parts of South Korea affected by Coronavirus outbreak
 
: 


 Fauci: "I'm not being muzzled by this administration." He says he stood down on a couple of TV appearances when Pence took over, has since been cleared to do media appearances. Calls report a "misrepresentation" of what happened.
 
 


 TOMORROW ON #MTP: Former VP @JoeBiden and @PeteButtigieg the day after the South Carolina primary. Plus, one-on-one with @VP Mike Pence about the coronavirus. #IfItsSunday
 
 


 It was our honor to partner with the @SecretService to plan, prepare & welcome @VP as he passed through @CityofSarasota on Friday. Nearly every one of our Officers worked to make sure it was a successful operation. See more photos @ 
... #LESM #Sarasota #Police
 
 




 The United States signed a historic peace deal with the Taliban in Doha, Qatar, Saturday that officials hope will mark the beginning of the end of America's longest war. Under the deal, all U.S. troops would withdraw from Afghanistan in 14 months if the Taliban meet their commitments. The signing between Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban officials will set the stage for the final withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan after 19 years of violence that has killed more than 3,500 Americans and coalition troops and tens of thousands of Afghans since the U.S. invasion following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. President Donald Trump said of the peace negotiations at a press conference at the White House on Saturday afternoon that "we think they will be successful in the end," adding, "I'll be meeting personally with Taliban leaders in the not too distant future."

 President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence on Saturday announced additional travel restrictions involving Iran and increased warnings about travel to Italy and South Korea to combat the coronavirus after the health officials in Washington state announced the first death in the U.S. from the virus. Pence, who's been placed in charge of the administration's response, said the U.S. would keep out any foreign national who's been in Iran within 14 days. The administration is also urging Americans not to travel to areas of Italy and South Korea that have been struck hard by the virus. Travel from China to the U.S. has already been restricted and Trump said he was also looking at restrictions on entry from America's southern border. Trump said the coronavirus victim who died in Washington was "a wonderful woman" in her fifties who was at "medically high-risk" for the illness. Trump said four other Americans are seriously all, and there are currently 22 confirmed cases.

 In a rare televised news conference from the White House on Saturday, President Donald Trump said the risk to Americans from coronavirus remains low and that he would meet with pharmaceutical companies next week to discuss development of a vaccine. His comments came as the first U.S. death from the disease was reported. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence also announced new travel restrictions to combat the virus, which has infected more than 84,000 people and killed nearly 3,000 people globally. An existing travel ban on Iran will be expanded to prevent any foreign national who has been in that country in the past 14 days from entering the U.S. The administration also advised Americans not to travel to regions of Italy and South Korea that have been impacted by the virus.

 Vice President Mike Pence said Friday that the federal government is prepared to assist the states if the coronavirus spreads significantly across the country — an eventuality he called unlikely. Pence told a brief press conference in Florida that as a former Indiana governor he understands the need for state and federal partnerships in dealing with a potential health crisis. President Donald Trump appointed Pence on Wednesday to oversee the administration's response to the coronavirus. Pence was in Florida to speak to a conservative political group and raise money for Republican congressional campaigns, but also met with GOP Gov. Ron DeSantis and his health staff at Palm Beach International Airport before speaking with reporters.

 President Donald Trump authorized the expansion of travel restrictions against Iran and the new recommendation that Americans refrain from visiting regions of Italy and South Korea impacted by the coronavirus. Vice President Mike Pence on Saturday detailed the heightened travel warnings in a press conference from the White House. "First, the president authorized action today to add additional travel restrictions on Iran. ... Iran is already under a travel ban, but we're are expanding existing travel restrictions to include any foreign national who has visited Iran within the last 14 days," Pence said. "We are going to increase, to the highest level advisory — which is Level 4 — advising Americans: Do not travel to specific regions in Italy and South Korea," he added. "We are urging Americans to not travel to the areas in Italy and the areas in South Korea that are most affected by the coronavirus."

 Seeking to reassure the American public, President Donald Trump said Saturday there was "no reason to panic" as the new coronavirus claimed its first victim inside the U.S. The White House also announced new restrictions on international travel to prevent its spread. Trump, speaking only moments after the death in Washington state was announced, took a more measured approach a day after he complained that the virus threat was being overblown and that his political enemies were perpetuating a "hoax." "This is very serious stuff," he said, but still insisted the criticism of his administration's handling of the virus outbreak was a hoax. Trump appeared at a hastily called news conference in the White House briefing room with Vice President Mike Pence and top public health officials to announce that the U.S. was banning travel to Iran and urging Americans not to travel to regions of Italy and South Korea where the virus has been prevalent.

 President Trump on Saturday further restricted travel from Iran and advised American citizens not to travel to specific regions in Italy and South Korea in response to the coronavirus. Vice President Pence announced the new steps alongside Trump and other U.S. health officials at a White House briefing with reporters on Saturday afternoon. Pence said Trump had authorized a ban on foreign nationals who have traveled to Iran in the last 14 days. The State Department is also working with the Italian and South Korean governments to enhance screenings in those countries of individuals traveling to the U.S. Pence also said the State Department has raised the travel advisory on specific regions in South Korea and Italy to the highest level, warning Americans not to travel there.

 Several Washington state health agencies confirmed Saturday afternoon that the country's first coronavirus death occurred and that multiple new cases of coronavirus have been detected in the region. King County Public Health and the Washington Department of Health confirmed the first U.S. death from the COVID-19 illness Saturday. Public information officer Jamie Nixon confirmed to several news outlets that a patient died as a result of a coronavirus-related infection. At least 64 cases have been confirmed inside the U.S. by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through Saturday morning, but more than 85,000 cases have been confirmed worldwide. President Donald Trump in a Saturday afternoon press conference touted he and Vice President Mike Pence's task force for conducting "the most aggressive action in modern history" to confront the coronavirus spread.

 Vice President Mike Pence said at a press conference Saturday that followed the first US coronavirus death that there was no need for people in the US to buy and wear masks to protect themselves from COVID-19. At a press conference Saturday, Trump and Pence, joined by other administration officials, spoke about coronavirus following the death of a person in Washington state. "The president mentioned masks," Pence said. "This morning we talked a great deal about additional medical supplies. Let me be very clear, and I'm sure the physicians who are up here will reflect this as well. The average American does not need to go out and buy a mask." The president at a press conference at the White House on Wednesday put the vice president in charge of the nation's coronavirus strategy as the federal government faced criticism over its response to the virus as it continues to spread beyond China's borders around the globe. The US has access to 43 million medical masks, President Trump said, just one of the resources that he credited with ensuring the country is "prepared for whatever circumstance."

 During an interview aired on Thursday's broadcast of the Fox News Channel's "Hannity," Vice President Mike Pence declared that "The risk of the spread of the coronavirus in the United States of America remains low." Pence said [relevant remarks begin around 8:15], "The risk of the spread of the coronavirus in the United States of America remains low. That's according to all of our experts. And it's a direct result of the unprecedented action that President Trump took last month, when he closed our border to Chinese individuals coming into the country and also established a quarantining effort. Our White House Coronavirus Task Force has literally been meeting every day for the last six weeks. And the American people can be confident that we're going to bring, at the president's direction, the full resources of the federal government to bear to protect the people of this country."




