

 The country can take great comfort in the fact that @realDonaldTrump has built teams to solve problems his entire life. America is armed with some of the best scientists in the world and in a better position to address coronavirus under @POTUS's leadership.
 


 On behalf of all my colleagues, I want to thank @POTUS for putting @VP in charge of the federal response. It's good to have a former governor running this coordinated response as state and local officials lead our preparedness efforts on the front lines.
 


 In spite of Washington Democrat leadership and some in the media trying to incite a panic, for political reasons... President Trump, VP Pence, Secretary Azar, and their team of experts are doing an outstanding job informing the public and keeping us prepared Bravo
 


 Today, @realDonaldTrump, @VP Pence & members of the Admin met w/ pharma/biotech companies working to develop the vaccine for COVID-19 to see how the government can assist in accelerating progress. Our leaders are doing everything possible to keep us safe. 
 
 


 It's @realDonaldTrump's responsibility to make sure the American public does not panic over #coronavirus. As a doctor, it's my responsibility to make sure people are prepared. I believe the president is doing his job to protect Americans. (1/2)
 
 


 Maintaining the safety of Americans is the most important job of the federal govt & I look forward to working w/ @POTUS & @VP to quickly & effectively contain & mitigate this threat. For updates on the #CoronaOutbreak, follow @CDCgov. My full statement: 
 


 The greatest scientists are right here in America. I am confident that @realDonaldTrump, @VP, the Administration and America's innovators are doing everything they can to prepare and respond to the #coronavirus.
 


 "Gov. Pete Ricketts said Monday that federal officials are urging states to seek whatever federal resources they need to prepare for the #COVID19 virus as it spreads in the United States and to focus as much as possible on prevention." @POTUS @VP
 


 Very productive call with @VP and @SecAzar discussing the latest on the #coronavirus. Thank you for partnering with governors across the country in the Administration's efforts to combat #COVID19. Grateful for your leadership as we work to ensure the health of all Mississippians. 
 
 


 Just participated in a video conference call on #COVID19 preparedness with @VP, Ambassador Debbie Birx, @SecAzar, and fellow governors. We need all hands on deck to combat coronavirus – and that means working with our local, state, and federal partners to address this threat.
 
 


 I was glad to be part of the #COVID19 call today with @VP Pence and other governors from across the country. My Department of Health @NMDOH has been working with healthcare providers to identify patients at risk, to provide testing and to manage infection control procedures.
 
 


 This morning, we participated in a #coronavirus update call with @VP Pence. Georgians can rest assured that - while there are no confirmed cases in Georgia - local, state, and federal partners are hard at work preparing for any scenario. #gapol
 


 I appreciated the chance to talk this morning with @VP Mike Pence, my fellow governors, and officials from @CDCgov and @HHSGov. They updated us on federal actions on novel coronavirus and solicited our help and input. As always, wash your hands and stay home if you're sick.
 


 I had a productive call this morning with @VP Mike Pence and our Nation's Governors regarding updates on #COVID19. Collaboration is key in this evolving situation, and we will continue our work to ensure Nevada is prepared.
 


 We had a call this morning with @VP, @Mike_Pence and the Secretary of @HHSGov, @SecAzar to update national and local efforts on the risk of COVID-19. We appreciate the efforts to ensure the safety of our people. @realDonaldTrump
 


 Joined @VP and Governors from around the country for a video conference to hear the latest on efforts by the administration and states to combat #COVID19. @NatlGovsAssoc 1/
 


 Participated with fellow governors in a briefing call from @VP Pence and @SecAzar regarding the response to COVID-19. We'll provide an update on the state's preparations at a press conference at 2:00 p.m. tomorrow, which will be streamed live at: 
.
 


 I participated in a video conference with @VP earlier today. I want to thank him and @POTUS for coordinating with governors across the country. (2/3)
 


 Today, as we continue to monitor and prepare for the emerging threat of COVID-19 @WV_DHHR Secretary Bill Crouch and I participated in a national briefing call with Vice President Mike Pence and officials with the Trump Administration. #WV #WVGov 
 


 Gov @GavinNewsom, fresh off call with @VP Pence, says "We have all the test kits we need" and "I am this point satisfied" with the federal response, doesn't wish to politicize #coronavirus further. But state is bracing for "extreme events...the more you test, the more positives"
 


 The White House briefing this afternoon was simply brilliant. An amazing constellation of some of the best thinkers in the world. Please stop with the political nonsense and let's get this done! #Coronarivus #covid19 @realDonaldTrump @Mike_Pence @SecAzar Anthony Fauci
 


 Today @VP and I announced the addition of @SecWilkie and @SeemaCMS to the President's Coronavirus Task Force after announcing the addition of @SecretaryCarson, @SteveFDA, and @WHOSTP Director Droegemeier on Sunday. 
 
 


 Thank you @POTUS Trump, @VP Pence, & @SecAzar for the opportunity to serve America's patients & represent the @CMSGov perspective, which focuses on enforcing essential health and safety standards in America's healthcare facilities and protecting patients.
 


 So reassuring and gratifying that @VP is deputizing infectious disease experts to lead this effort against COVID-19 & to organize public health infrastructure response to it - in short, let science guide us here and the trained experts know best how to do that
 
 




 By Bradley Blakeman and Christos Makridis. It is not whether a pandemic will visit us; it is when. And, with the spread of the COVID-19 (coronavirus) worldwide, is it now and are we prepared? The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) describes a pandemic as a "global disease outbreak," such that an influenza pandemic occurs when "a new flu virus emerges for which people have little or no immunity." One of the most socially and economically challenging components of an influenza is the possibility of contagion — when a virus spreads rapidly and easily from person to person, which can cause serious illness in a short period of time across a large landscape. The economic and social consequences of a pandemic are significant. The Council of Economic Advisers published a report in 2019 in anticipation of the possibility of such a catastrophe, finding that pandemics can cause between $413 billion to $3.79 trillion in economic damages in a year.

 By Rob Wasinger. What a difference a month makes. In January, President Trump made the bold and tough decision to suspend travel from China after reports began to reveal the severity of the coronavirus outbreak there. For his efforts, he faced a barrage of criticism from leading Democrats and their mouthpieces in the media who labeled the ban extreme, premature, and (of course) racist. While the administration was busy setting up a task force to assess and deal with the new risk, Democrats took time out from flogging their latest Russia conspiracy theory to criticize the lack of diversity in the experts Trump had chosen for the coronavirus group. Now, as the coronavirus outbreak spreads to countries that exercised less foresight in clamping down on travel and other preventative measures than did the United States, the Democratic apparatus sees a political opportunity in anticipating a wider outbreak of the virus in the U.S. To that end, Democrats have now reversed course, hitting the administration for a lack of preparedness. Since all the other recent attempts to bring down Trump's administration have crashed and burned so spectacularly, why not try to politicize a potential pandemic?

 By Miranda Devine. Whom better to have as president during the coronavirus epidemic but a renowned germaphobe, the "build-the-wall" guy who refuses to kowtow to China? It's a unique set of characteristics showing that President Trump understood early the need for decisive measures such as travel restrictions on China, which he imposed in January. Yet for that sensible decision — in defiance of the World Health Organization — he was criticized by Democrats such as Joe Biden as xenophobic, and by China as racist. "This is no time for Donald Trump's record of hysteria and xenophobia — hysterical xenophobia — and fearmongering," said Biden the day after the travel restrictions were imposed. Trump's travel restrictions began on Jan. 31. Australia and Singapore instituted their own travel limits the next day. Trump's move bought valuable time to slow the spread of the virus and ease pressure on the nation's health system before a vaccine is developed — which experts believe is at least 18 months away. But that hasn't stopped the barrage of fake criticisms, including that Trump had left the nation dangerously unprepared to cope with a pandemic by cutting funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.