Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from an overcast and breezy Palm Beach where pool is holding in vans outside Mar-a-Lago.
We are flying home today via a fundraising event in Orlando.
Motorcade rolling at 09:47 from Mar-a-Lago.
Motorcade arrived airport at 09:56. POTUS headed straight up steps by himself.
Uneventful ride. A smattering of supporters had their usual 2020 banners and one huge sign read: "Pardon Roger Stone" with a cartoon of the man himself. An opponent held up a "Drop dead" sign.
Wheels up for Orlando imminently.
Air Force One wheels down at 10:36 after uneventful hop from West Palm Beach.
POTUS disembarked from AF1 to cheers from small crowd. He walked over to greet well-wishers, shaking their hands.
He did not respond to shouted questions about the markets.
Motorcade rolling at 10:52.
We are en route to a private residence in Longwood for a fundraising event.
Have asked campaign for more information.
Further to previous report, after checking with photographers, POTUS also shook hands with Florida governor after descending AF1 steps.
Pic of arrival in Orlando
Motorcade arrived at private residence in Longwood at 11:13.
Address: 3101 Legacy View Cove, off Markham Woods, decorated with a big Trump 2020 Keep America Great banner.
Pool will forward any further details we get about the event.
Mostly supporters along route with some MAGA hats but few signs.
On exception was a full size Elmo with a sign saying: "Even I'm turning blue in 2020."
Judd Deere forwards:
"Reports that the White House has issued formal guidelines to staff instructing them to limit in-person interactions and meetings are completely false. While we have asked all Americans to exercise common-sense hygiene measures, we are conducting business as usual. I want to remind the media once again to be responsible with all reporting." Stephanie Grisham
This comes on background from campaign: Today's fundraiser is anticipated to raise $4 million with 300 attendees. Separate from $10 million this weekend.
Motorcade rolling at 12:51 after fundraising event.
Pic of Beast parked at residence attached.
Driveway features a fountain with water pouring from duck beaks. Neat lawn is studded with palm trees. A marquee at the back looked as if it was set up for refreshments and waiters appeared with what looked like trays of dessert.
RNC chief Rhona McDaniel seen coming out as pool left.
Motorcade arrived back to Orlando Sanford International Airport at 13:09. POTUS headed straight up steps without speaking.
Matt Gaetz was also seen boarding via front steps.
Uneventful drive. A few dozen people, mostly supporters, along first few hundred yards of route. A Trump Lightyear cutout figure (POTUS's head in a Buzz Lightyear costume) had a "Space Force" sign. 100 yards along the street stood Elmo again.
For those wondering we are on AF1 tail reg 28000.
At 13:19 bound for JBA about 10 min behind schedule.
AF1 wheels down Joint Base Andrews at 14:54.
No visitors to press cabin during journey.
POTUS descended steps by himself, waved briefly, and made straight for Marine One.
Marine One wheels up 15:09.
Thanks to fellow poolers Emily Goodin, Tam Keith, Jeff Mason, Peter Baker et al for contributions throughout the weekend.
Handing off to in-town pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon.
The White House press office just sent out an updated final gather time of 3:10 pm EDT at the Palm Room doors for the president's arrival on Marine 1.
Marine 1 descended out of a soft blue sky with a few wispy cirrus clouds and settled onto the South Lawn at 1519.
Pool had been told to position at the West Wing side of the driveway, but Trump instead walked directly toward the residence.
A mad dash ensued, but he took no shouted questions and entered the building at 1522.
A few minutes later he led a dozen or so along the colonnade to the West Wing, watching and pointing as the helicopter throttled up and flew off.
There was an announcement over the loudspeakers that the briefing will begin at 6.
Reminder -- the briefing is open press.
It was just announced that the coronavirus briefing has now been pushed to 1830.
The president entered the briefing room at 1834 and has begun with his statement.
This event is open press.
The president gave a statement for 2 minutes and 40 seconds, in which he said:
- His administration is taking proposals to Congress about reducing the payroll tax, finding a solution to workers who do not have paid sick leave who might not want to self-quarantine for fear of losing paychecks, helping the cruise industry.
- He also said he has done a great job by closing the borders, something which had never been done.*
After Pence spoke for 7 minutes on these topics, Trump again stepped to the lectern, said he would have a press conference tomorrow about those issues, and repeated that he has done a great job -- "This blindsided the world, and I think we've done a very, very good job." -- and then left.
He ignored a shouted question about whether he has been tested for the virus.
After he left, Pence said he didn't know if Trump had been tested, but that he would find out.
[* This was not an accurate statement. Your pooler recommends due diligence.]
More quotes to come ASAP.
The briefing continues with members of the Coronavirus Task Force.
Trump said he would be pushing a payroll tax cut – "substantial relief… it's a big number" – as well as help for hourly workers who do not have sick leave so they don't have to worry about missing paychecks if they self-quarantine.
"So they don't get penalized for something that's not their fault." He then described how he has done a great job already:
"We have been handling it really well. We made the decision early when we shut down our borders. We were the first ones ever to do that. We've never done that in our country before."
[NB – the president did not "close our borders." He imposed bans on foreign nationals from entering the country from, at first, China, and then also Iran and certain regions of Italy and South Korea.]
He then said he will be working with the Small Business Administration to make loans for small businesses, and with the airline, cruise ship and hotel industries.
"We'll be working with them very, very strongly."
"We'll be taking care of the American public."
NOTE: Here is the corrected quote from his second visit to the lectern: "This blindsided the world, and I think we've handled it very, very well."
Apparently the press office called a travel/photo lid for the evening at about 1925.
Bonne nuit.
This from the WH:
From Stephanie Grisham:
The President has not received COVID-19 testing because he has neither had prolonged close contact with any known confirmed COVID-19 patients, nor does he have any symptoms. President Trump remains in excellent health, and his physician will continue to closely monitor him.
Per current 
, medical professionals should base testing decisions on patient symptoms and exposure history.