Pool Reports by 
, 
Reporters at the White House just spotted Anthony Fauci walking, while talking on his phone, into the West Wing. He did not stop to chat.
Tv pool has been told to preset. President has a 3 pm meeting with bankers that had been listed as closed press.
Pool is heading to a spray.
Pool is still holding. Here is background:
EXTERNAL SOURCE
Today, President Donald J. Trump will meet with banking leaders to discuss how the financial services industry can meet the needs of their customers who may be affected by COVID-19, particularly consumers and small businesses.
The Trump Administration continues its aggressive whole-of-government approach while also leading a whole-of-America strategy to bring public health officials, academia, non-profits, and the private sector together to protect the American people.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Jared Kushner,
Christopher Liddell,
Marc Short,
Larry Kudlow,
Andrew Olmem, 
Tim Pataki,
Secretary Steven Mnuchin,
Administrator Jovita Carranza, 
Deputy Secretary Muzinich,
Rob Nichols,
Brian Moynihan, 
Stephen Schwarzman, 
Ken Griffin, 
Michael Corbat,
Richard Hunt,
David Solomon,
Rebeca Romero Rainey, 
Gordon Smith, 
Kelly King, 
Andrew Cecere, 
Charlie Scharf, 
Trump says he will be making a statement tonight. Ongoing.
Arrived in cabinet room at 3:39. Bankers and staff gathered Around the table with Trump at center. Trump said they are discussing economy and jobs in light of virus. Trump said he has made some decisions today and will make others.
Then he asked bankers to speak:
Brian Moynihan of B of A said banks are in great position on capital and liquidity and providing relief to customers out of work because of the virus.
Michael Corbat of Citi "this is not a financial crisis."
Trump "now we're hitting a patch..."
Ongoing:
Statement is "probably at 8 o'clock"
Trump has arms crossed at points and hands folded at others and is in the center. Kushner on one end near Mnuchin. Kudlow on other side. Bankers and others scattered among them.
Trump: "We'll be doing a lot of additional work with small businesses...many billions of dollars"
Ken Griffin of Citadel: "your focus on fiscal stimulus is really important" especially for struggling families.
Gordon Smith of JP Morgan: bank has resiliency plans to help our people and customers. Extended $26b in loans in last 40 days.
Trump: "There will be a pent up demand" when this is done.
In response to questions, Trump says he won't answer whether there will be more travel restrictions or a national disaster declaration till tonight.
There will be both economic and health announcements, he said. Pool is being ushered out now.
"This came out of nowhere. It actually came out of China...we are going to get the problem solved."
"If we get rid of the problem quickly everything solved itself..we are talking about various forms of stimulus"
"The payroll tax would be great. Dems are not in favor of it. I'm trying to figure out why"
There was no additional news during the spray. In response to a question, the president allowed the bankers to offer some suggestions to boost the economy. And he dismissed a question from Jim Acosta of CNN who asked "what do you say to Americans who are concerned that you're not taking this seriously enough and that some of your statements don't match what your health experts are saying."
"That's CNN, Fake news," President Trump responded.
He then thanked the pool, prompting the wranglers to begin moving the pool out of the room.
Dinner lid till 7:30.
Heads up: reporters will not be allowed in while POTUS delivers tonight's televised address. One poll television crew and one still camera are allowed in. So there will be no pool report from inside the address.
Travel photo lid has been called.
"Out of an abundance of caution from the Coronavirus outbreak, the President has decidedto cancel his upcoming events in Colorado and Nevada." Stephanie Grisham