Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I am your print pooler today.
I just got this from Judd Deere,
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The President and the Crown Prince discussed global energy markets and other critical regional and bilateral issues.
Anne Gearan's VP pool report has list of insurers attending the. Coronavirus task force meeting.
I am here as POTUS is expected. We are about to go into the Roosevelt Room.
The list
Gail Bourdreaux, President & CEO of Anthem, Inc.
Dave Wichmann, CEO UnitedHealth Group
Bruce Broussard, President and CEO Humana
Michael F. Neidorff, Chairman, President, and CEO Centene Corporation
Matt Eyles, President and CEO Americas Health Insurance Plans (AHIP)
Tim Wentworth, CEO of Express Scripts and Cigna Services
Justine Handelman, Senior Vice President, Office of Policy and Representation, Blue Cross Blue Shield Association
Karen Lynch, President of Aetna Business Unit, Executive Vice President, CVS Health
Gregory Adams, Chairman and CEO Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.
Secretary Alex Azar, Department of Health and Human Services
Administrator Seema Verma, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Marc Short, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Joe Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director of Domestic Policy Council
Trump greeted the pool and acknowledged those at the table, then handed off
Pence made it clear this will be a "whole of government approach"
-Private insurers Agreed to waive all copays, will cover telemedicine
Trump"
"We are working very very closely with the cruise industry"
Airlines too
"We'll be helping them through this patch"
Gail Boudreaux
Anthem
"Cost is not an issue to having the testing done"
Bruce Broussard
"We are very oriented to g TV e aging population"
Gov Ricketts
"I appreciate your leadership..."
According to fellow poolers, Trump said yes when asked if he was going to the Hill this afternoon.
Fuller quotes to follow
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 11:43
Trump saluted the companies there - "probably the biggest companies in the world."
"And I think that tremendous progress is being made."
Handed off to VP
Pence"President Trump made clear from the early days of the corona virus (there'd be) a whole-of-government approach."
Trump already met with pharma leaders, lab leaders, airline leaders, nursing home leaders.
"We're bringing all of the business of the country to bear to protect the health of the American people."
Today health insurers
Money quote:
"I am pleased to report, as you requested Mr. President All the insurance companies here today or before today have agreed to waive all co-pays for coronavirus testing and extend coverage for coronavirus treatment in all their benefit plans."
They've also agreed to cover telemedicine,
"The CEOs have also agreed to no surprise billing."
Showed information from 
More
We interrupt transcription service for a motorcade interlude.
We started rolling at 12:43
We arrived at the Hill at 12:49
At 12:53 POTUS strode into Ohio Clock Corridor. Sen Roy Blunt and Mitch Mx Connell escorted him.
Also seen trailing behind -Mnuchin, VP Pence, Larry Kudlow, Peter Navarro
Republicans only at lunch.
POTUS left the lunch at 1:55
Trump talked to ores with Mnuchin standing next to him
"We just had a great meeting"
On Democrats"They came in very chopped up"
A lot of the things they wanted before
"I guess it's not a big deal to get tested"
If he had symptoms
"You people would be the first to know it"
"We're at 26 deaths"
Also saw Hogan Gidley and Katie Miller
Will he fire anyone?
Team doing a good job
Gavin Newsom
"Stay calm. It will go away"
Out at 2:02
Transcript for Coronavirus Task Force has been released.
Pool did not see POTUS leave motorcade when we arrived at the White House around 2:10.
On the way to the Hill it was raining, so there were a few pedestrians that watched the motorcade. No signs.
On the way back, one woman gave the caravan the finger and a little girl waved.
At 4:30, POTUS will give Gen. Jack Keane the Medal of Freedom in the East Room.
This fine profile on Keane from Eliana Johnson.
You can watch live here.
Later,
You can watch the Medal of Freedom ceremony on Whitehouse.gov Live
Seen
Larry Kudlow, Sen. Lindsey Graham, Secretary Pompeo, Bill Barr, Mike Esper
Waiting for list of attendees.
FLOTUs entered the East Room at 4:49.
Then POTUS was announced with Gen Jack Keane.
You can see for yourself..,
From Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump will present the Medal of Freedom to General Jack Keane. The Medal of Freedom is our Nation's highest honor for civilian accomplishment.
General Jack Keane is one of our Nation's most distinguished military leaders. General Keane proudly served his country in Vietnam as a paratrooper, receiving the Silver Star for his courage and gallantry in action. His steadfast leadership as a four-star General and as Vice Chief of Staff of the Army provided stability and direction for those under his command. Since retiring from the military, General Keane has remained engaged on matters of foreign policy, devoting himself to developing policies that confront the dynamic threats facing our Nation. The United States proudly honors General Jack Keane, whose tireless devotion to our country has defined him as a true American patriot.
President Donald J. Trump
Larry Kudlow,
LTG Joseph Kellogg,
Tim Pataki, 
General Mark Milley, 
Secretary Mike Pompeo, 
Secretary Mark Esper, 
Attorney General William Barr, 
Secretary Dan Brouillette,
Senator Lindsey Graham, SC
Keane near tears "and you can hear it in my voice"
And it is over at 5:13
White House daily coronavirus press briefing is about to begin.
Vice President's shield is on the podium -- which means POTUS is unlikely to appear. (Although I am not doing so hot in the personal prediction department today.)
Press staff is bringing in charts.
You can watch it live.
[
]