Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House.
President Trump has joined Vice President Pence's meeting with airline CEOs in the Roosevelt Room regarding the Coronavirus.
There is a separate Pence pool in that event and your in-town pooler is not in there. But wanted to flag the president's drop by.
Pool is assembling at the Palm Room doors.
POTUS is scheduled to deliver remarks at 1:50 pm at the Latino Coalition Legislative Summit.
Pool is holding in motorcade.
The White House sends along excerpts from POTUS remarks:
…
With the hard work, love and devotion of millions of incredible Hispanic-Americans, our country is thriving, our people are prospering, and our future has never looked brighter!
…
Under the booming Trump Economy, Latinos are achieving record gains [...] We have created 3 million new jobs for Hispanic-Americans. Hispanic-American unemployment has fallen to the lowest rate ever recorded!
…
Our agenda is delivering remarkable opportunity and security to millions of hardworking Hispanic-American families. Nearly 40 million Hispanic-Americans live in households benefiting from our expansion of the child tax credit – providing an extra $2,000 yearly for the average family of four.
...
4 out of 5 Hispanic-owned small businesses expect their revenue to increase this year, and half of all Hispanic-owned small businesses plan to hire more workers. In 2019, Latino businesses saw an astonishing 46% increase in revenues!
…
Since my election, more than 1 million LATINAS have entered the workforce, with their unemployment rate falling to a record low. And I am very proud to report that more LATINAS now own small businesses than ever before!
…
America stands with the suffering people of Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua in their righteous struggle for liberty—and we continue to work for the day when this will become the first fully free hemisphere in all of human history! Today, we repeat our pledge that America will NEVER be a socialist country.
…
We are also immensely grateful for the countless Hispanic-Americans proudly serving in local, state and federal enforcement – including the brave Hispanic-Americans protecting our nation on the frontlines as Border Agents. [...] We are immensely grateful for their amazing work seizing drugs, stopping human trafficking, and ensuring a safe, humane and LAWFUL system of immigration.
…
Our Latino Communities have always been a vital and indispensable part of the American Family. From the beginning of our Republic, the exceptional drive, talent, faith, skill, imagination and devotion of Latino-Americans has uplifted our entire nation.
Judd Deere passes this along:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar. The President thanked the Amir for Qatar's invaluable role in securing the United States-Taliban agreement on February 29. The two leaders agreed on the need for the Taliban to continue to reduce violence and participate in intra-Afghan negotiations with the Afghan government, as well as other Afghans, as next steps on the path toward peace. The President and the Amir also discussed bilateral and regional issues, including the need for all parties to take steps to resolve the Gulf dispute.
At 1:37 pm the motorcade is rolling.
Pool laid brief eyes on POTUS as he boarded the Beast coming from the Oval Office. Kellyanne Conway got in the car with him.
At 1:40 pm POTUS arrived at JW Marriott for his address to the Latino Coalition Legislative Summit.
Motorcade was uneventful.
Speech will be live streamed: 
Pool will send any relevant color.
The White House passes along the following information:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks to Hispanic American business leaders and small business owners along with members of the Latino Coalition attending the Annual Latino Coalition Legislative Summit. Under President Trump's policies, the U.S. economy is in the midst of a Great American Comeback, especially for Hispanic-Americans. According to the Council of Economic Advisors:
· Nearly 40 million Hispanic-Americans live in households benefiting from President Trump's expansion of the child tax credit – providing an extra $2,000 yearly for the average family of four.
· More than 600,000 Hispanic-Americans have been lifted out of poverty.
· Median household income for Hispanic-Americans surpassed $50,000 a year for the first time on record – it is now at the highest level in American history.
· Hispanic-American home ownership increased by more than half a million.
President Donald J. Trump
Kellyanne Conway, 
Jennifer Korn,
Ben Carson, Secretary,
Jovita Carranza,
Governor Wanda Garced, 
Hector Barreto, 
Miguel Gutierrez, 
Prisma Soto,
Tracey Ordonez, 
Omar Franco, 
Jeanette Prenger, 
Rafael Cuellar,
Eric Hoplin, 
Daniel Bryant, 
Jason Nikkels, 
350+ Hispanic American business leaders and owners
POTUS took the stage at 1:56 pm to "Proud to Be An American."
He was introduced by Latino Coalition Chairman Hector Barreto, who noted POTUS last spoke to the group two years ago.
A reminder the POTUS remarks are being live streamed: 
POTUS finished speaking at 2:17 pm.
Pool is headed to the vans.
Motorcade left JW Marriott at 2:21 pm.
Pooler did not see POTUS. We are rolling for short ride back.
At 2:23 pm motorcade returned to White House.
Pool caught brief glimpse of POTUS returning to Oval. Kellyanne Conway also exited The Beast.
Judd Deere passes along the following readout:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. The two leaders emphasized the need for the United States and France to work together to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The two leaders also discussed the upcoming G7 summit, the International Atomic Energy Agency's efforts to monitor the Iranian regime's atomic activities, and the Syrian regime's ongoing offensive resulting in a humanitarian crisis in northwest Syria.
The briefing is on camera and being livestreamed: 