Pool Reports by 
, 
POTUS is bound for California again. Today he'll travel to the Palm Springs area for a closed press fundraiser and supporter round table. Then he is going to Bakersfield to talk to farmers about water access.
After that, he'll hold a rally in Phoenix before flying back to Las Vegas for the night.
We are rolling at 931 am.
From Judd Deere: "The President stopped by a reception hosted by Trump Victory in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas."
Motorcade arrived at the airport at 947 am. We did not see POTUS board. We are wheels up for California shortly.
AF1 landed at 10:32 am.he walked over to supporters after deplaning at 1045 am. He said "thank you" to supporters who told him they loved him. Pool is being herded to vans at 10:47 am.
Next stop is Rancho Mirage where POTUS has a fundraiser and supporter round table.
Onpassing from Stephanie Grisham about Daily Beast article alleging that Trump offered a pardon to Julian Assange in exchange for covering up Russia's involvement in the DNC hack:
"The President barely knows Dana Rohrabacher other than he's an ex-congressman. He's never spoken to him on this subject or almost any subject. It is is a complete fabrication and a total lie. This is probably another never ending hoax and total lie from the DNC."
Motorcade arrived at Porcupine Creek, the golf course owned by Larry Ellison, the billionaire founder of Oracle, at 11:20 a.m. We did not see POTUS exit the Beast and we are now holding.
The ride out of Palm Springs was dotted with onlookers. Along the route we saw supporters waving signs like "TRUMP LANDSLIDE." Protestors had their own: "LOCK HIM UP."
From Judd Deere - "The President will participate in a fundraiser this morning at Porcupine Creek Golf Course for Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee authorized by and composed of Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. and the Republican National Committee."
Judd Deere: "Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. The two leaders discussed the importance of NATO, French and United States counterterrorism efforts in the Sahel, and other bilateral issues."
Motorcade is rolling to airport, bound for Bakersfield, at 1:15 p.m.
We did not see POTUS enter the Beast.
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 1:36 pm. POTUS had already boarded when we climbed out.
Americans of different political stripes were spotted along the journey. Signs ranged from "Latinos for Trump" to "Wimp."
Wheels up shortly.
AF1 landed in Meadows Field airport in Bakersfield at 2:26 pm and POTUS disembarked at 243 pm, pumping his fist. He was followed by Kevin McCarthy.
Pool was ushered into vans as he met greeters. POTUS is scheduled to address an agricultural group on water accessibility shortly. Greeters:
The President is met by –
Secretary David Bernhardt
Mark Witsoe
The event will be streamed on the White House YouTube account but some excerpted remarks are below, per White House:
...
I am thrilled to be here today as we take historic action on behalf of our incredible farmers, ranchers, growers, and communities throughout the Central Valley and across the great state of California....
As a candidate for President, I promised to help solve the water crisis that was crippling our farmers due to chronic mismanagement and misguided policies.
...
In 2018, I ordered my Administration to update the outdated scientific research and biological opinions that help determine water allocation here in California.
...
Today, I am pleased to announce that this update is COMPLETE. A major obstacle to providing more water for the region's farmers has now been ELIMINATED.
...
>From the beginning, the Trump Administration has DELIVERED for our great Farmers.
...
Under the previous Administration, net farm income plummeted by 20 percent. Under my Administration, net farm income has increased by nearly 50 percent.
...
We have secured historic trade deals—including a new trade agreement with China and the USMCA—that will massively increase our agricultural exports.
...
We terminated the Waters of the United States Rule.
...
America is a nation built by farmers who work hard to provide for their families, support their neighbors, and draw out God's abundance from the Earth. You pour out your sweat and soul for your land, your communities, and your country.
...
--
The president just took the stage to deafening applause and "USA USA chants" at an airplane hangar in Bakersfield. Event is open press and streamed on WH YouTube.
Background from Judd Deere: Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks to highlight his Administration's support for rural America and sign a Presidential Memorandum on Developing and Delivering More Water Supplies in California.
President Trump is committed to reforming outdated regulations that have undermined many Federal western water infrastructure investments for decades.  On October 19, 2018, the President signed a Presidential Memorandum outlining water supply goals for the San Joaquin Valley and other areas in southern California as part of an event in Scottsdale, AZ.  The Presidential Memorandum also directed the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality to review long-term coordinated operations of the Central Valley Project and the California State Water Project and subsequently to issue an updated 
and 
 (ROD).
The Presidential Memorandum to be signed as part of this event directs DOI, DOC, and CEQ to build upon the success of the 
 and 
 by supplementing these operations to help develop and deliver water supplies in the Central Valley of California.
President Donald J. Trump
Secretary David Bernhardt, 
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, 
Representative Devin Nunes, 
Representative Tom McClintock, 
Representative Doug LaMalfa, 
Representative Paul Cook, 
Representative Markwayne Mullin, 
State Senator Shannon Grove,
State Assemblyman Vincent Fong,
Cynthia Zimmer,
Sheriff Donny Youngblood,
Mayor Karen Goh, 
50 Rural Stakeholders from California
Event ended at 342 pm. We are departing shortly for Phoenix where POTUS is scheduled to hold a rally.
Few notes:
* POTUS said that Republicans would like to pick up seven House seats in the state of California and "get rid of Pelosi," which earned him a loud round of cheering.
* POTUS told the group the border wall construction is up to 122 miles.
* A local farmer thanked him for cutting regulations. Another told him: "Every day that you've been in office you've done exactly what you promised. You came to California and sought to understand our water issues."
* POTUS invoked disparaging nicknames to bring up some 2020 Dems - "Mini Mike hates the farm. I don't know, I don't think he's going to be the candidate anyway. Have to start working on Crazy Bernie pretty soon."
* "You're incredible people," he told the group. "You work so hard, and you're smart as hell."
AF1 landed in Phoenix at 6 pm on the dot. POTUS disembarked against the watercolors of a very beautiful Arizona sunset and gave a small wave.
The flight was uneventful, though Judd Deere passed the pool a paper printout of POTUS's tweet naming Richard Grinell the acting director of national intelligence.
Fox News was playing aboard and flashed several of the polls that have apparently irritated the president regarding his potential 2020 matchups, at least according to his tweet earlier today.
We are rolling to the rally at 6:21 pm.
From WH on greeters:
The President is met by –
Governor Doug Ducey
State Senator Karen Finn
State Representative Rusty Bowers
Mayor John Giles
Attorney General Mark Brnovich
Vice President Myron Lizer
We arrived at Veterans Memorial Coliseum at 6:39 pm and Donald Trump Jr was speaking. He talked about "morons," Elizabeth Warren and the president.
"I assure you my father will be in the fight. And he'll make it very, very, very entertaining."
Some 40 minutes after POTUS arrived at the venue, the crowd, apparently tired of waiting for him to emerge, began chanting "We Want Donald."
POTUS took the stage at 727 pm to the soothing sounds of Lee Greenwood.
Rally is open press.
POTUS wrapped up at 851 pm.There was no WiFi or cell signal whatsoever for anyone in pool, so apologies if initial report was late.Rolling to airport at 9 pm.
Motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 9:15 pm. POTUS was already aboard when pool pulled up. We are wheels up shortly.
AF1 landed in Vegas at 912 pm.
Before we even took off, POTUS came back to speak to the pool. He then brought the pool to his cabin up watch the Democratic debate with him until after the plane landed, all off the record.
POTUS came down the stairs, waved to the pool, and climbed into the Beast. We are rolling to Trump International for him to RON at 930 pm.
From WH:
Michael McDonald
Motorcade arrived at the Trump International at 951 pm after driving down the Las Vegas strip.
We have a lid.