Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:



Alex Wong currently serves as Deputy Special Representative for North Korea at the State Department and as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for North Korea in the State Department's Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Prior to these roles, Mr. Wong was the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Regional and Security Affairs in the East Asian and Pacific Affairs Bureau, and earlier he was the Foreign Policy Advisor and General Counsel to United States Senator Tom Cotton. Mr. Wong was previously an attorney at the Washington, D.C. law firm of Covington and Burling. He also served as a law clerk for Judge Janice Rogers Brown of the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Mr. Wong earned his B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania and his J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he was the Managing Editor of the Harvard Law Review.



Dr. Wos presently serves as Vice Chair of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. Previously, Dr. Wos served as the Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services and before that was the United States Ambassador to the Republic of Estonia. Currently, she is a member of the Board of Directors of the Council of American Ambassadors, the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation, and The Institute of World Politics, and she was a member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Council. Earlier in her career, Dr. Wos worked as a physician specializing in internal medicine and pulmonary care. She is an active Member of the Republican Regents, Republican National Committee, serves on the Duke University Law School Board of Visitors, and previously was on the University of North Carolina Board of Governors. Dr. Wos attended Marquette University and then the Warsaw Medical Academy from which she received her Doctor of Medicine degree.







Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:











