Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
It's 40 degrees and cloudy at the White House. I will be your pooler today. The president is set to sign the USMCA Trade Agreement later this morning.
We are starting to gather for the signing. It is open press but I will send highlights and color.
[
]
From Judd:
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks at the signing ceremony for the United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement (as prepared)
...
Today, we are finally ending the NAFTA nightmare and signing into law the brand new US-Mexico-Canada Agreement! The USMCA is the largest, fairest, most balanced and modern trade agreement ever achieved.
...
For the first time in American History, we have replaced a disastrous trade deal that REWARDED outsourcing with a truly FAIR and RECIPROCAL trade deal that will keep jobs, wealth and growth right here in AMERICA!
...
This agreement is a tremendous breakthrough for American Agriculture. Canada will finally provide greater access for American dairy.
...
The USMCA is also a massive win for American Manufacturers and Autoworkers.
...
This is a cutting-edge, state-of-the-art agreement that protects, defends, and serves the great people of our country.
...
Together we are building a glorious future that is RAISED, GROWN, BUILT and MADE right here in the glorious USA!
Apologies, mixed up numbering. Quotes from Judd were #3, this is #4. We are in place for the signing.
Jared and Ivanka arrived at 11:09 am and sat in the front row. The president and vice president arrived shortly after. The president opened by complimenting the musicians, and the sun mercifully came out to warm everyone up a bit as the president arrived.
"Today we are ending the NAFTA nightmare," the president opened.
Some quick quotes. Will send more soon.
On the border/the wall:
"Other countries are now looking at it but they can't be a border like that, because believe it or not that is by far the biggest border, anywhere in the world in terms of economy, in terms of people. There's nothing even close. This is a colossal victory for our farmers, ranchers energy workers factory workers and American workers in all 50 states, and you could almost say beyond, because it's all beyond. This is all over the world, even though it's at one beautiful border, where by the way a very major powerful wall is right now being built."
"It's a day of great celebration in all three countries."
On Grassley's involvement:
"He was brutal. He would call me he would say how is it going? How is it going? And with Chuck you don't mess around."
On complimenting senators/the impeachment trial:
"Maybe I'm just being nice because I want their vote. I don't want to leave anyone out. Congressman, I already got your vote."
Mentioned Cornyn, said his poll numbers looked good and added that he doesn't have to deal with Beto.
Guest list and more from Judd:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will sign his historic United States-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement (USMCA), making good on his promise to deliver fair and reciprocal trade for the American people.
On January 16, the United States Senate passed USMCA by a margin of 89-10, sending the bill to the President's desk. The Agreement had previously passed the House by a margin of 385-41. This Agreement that enjoyed unprecedented bipartisan support will replace NAFTA – fulfilling a core promise the President made to the American people.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Mick Mulvaney,
Jared Kushner, 
Ivanka Trump, 
Christopher Liddell, 
Eric Ueland, 
Larry Kudlow,
Kellyanne Conway, 
John Eisenberg, 
Peter Navarro,
Marc Short, 
Tim Pataki, 
, 
Doug Hoelscher, 
Brian Jack, 
Ambassador Kelly Knight Kraft, 
Ambassador Christopher Landau, 
Secretary Steve Mnuchin,
Secretary David Bernhardt, 
Secretary Wilbur Ross, 
Secretary Gene Scalia, 
Secretary Elaine L. Chao,
Secretary Dan Brouillette,
Administrator Andrew Wheeler,
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, 
Administrator Jovita Carranza,
Deputy Secretary Stephen Censkey, 
Deputy Secretary Karen Dunn Kelley, 
Ambassador CJ Mahoney, 
Acting Ambassador Kirsten Hillman, 
H.E. Marcelo Ebrard,
H.E. Graciela Marquez, 
Jesus Seade,
Luz María de la Mora Sánchez, 
Ambassador Martha Barcena, 
Senator Marsha Blackburn, (R-TN)
Senator Roy Blunt, (R-MO)
Senator John Boozman, (R-AR)
Senator Mike Braun, (R-IN)
Senator Shelley Moore Capito, (R-WV)
Senator Bill Cassidy, (R-LA)
Senator John Cornyn, (R-TX)
Senator Tom Cotton, (R-AR)
Senator Kevin Cramer, (R-ND)
Senator Ted Cruz, (R-TX)
Senator Steve Daines, (R-MT)
Senator Joni Ernst, (R-IA)
Senator Deb Fischer, (R-NE)
Senator Lindsey Graham, (R-SC)
Senator Chuck Grassley, (R-IA)
Senator Josh Hawley, (R-MO)
Senator John Hoeven, (R-ND)
Senator James Lankford, (R-OK)
Senator Kelly Loeffler, (R-GA)
Senator Martha McSally, (R-AZ)
Senator Jerry Moran, (R-KS)
Senator James Risch, (R-ID)
Senator Pat Roberts, (R-KS)
Senator Mike Rounds, (R-SD)
Senator Tim Scott, (R-SC)
Senator Thom Tillis, (R-NC)
Senator Roger Wicker, (R-MS)
Representative Jodey Arrington, (R-TX)
Representative Kevin Brady, (R, TX)
Representative Vern Buchanan, (R-FL)
Representative Liz Cheney, (R-WY)
Representative Michael Cloud, (R-TX)
Representative Mike Conaway, (R-TX)
Representative Warren Davidson, (R-OH)
Representative Rodney Davis, (R-IL)
Representative Tom Emmer, (R-MN)
Representative Ron Estes, (R-KS)
Representative Drew Ferguson, (R-GA)
Representative Jim Hagedorn, (R-MN)
Representative Vicky Hartzler, (R-MO)
Representative Will Hurd, (R-TX)
Representative Mike Johnson, (R-LA)
Representative Jim Jordan, (R-OH)
Representative Mike Kelly, (R-PA)
Representative Darin LaHood, (R-IL)
Representative Doug LaMalfa, (R-CA)
Representative Kenny Marchant, (R-TX)
Representative Roger Marshall, (R-KS)
Representative Kevin McCarthy, (R-CA)
Representative Michael McCaul, (R-TX)
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, (R-WA)
Representative Mark Meadows, (R-NC)
Representative Carol Miller, (R-WV)
Representative Paul Mitchell, (R-MA)
Representative Devin Nunes, (R-CA)
Representative Gary Palmer, (R-AL)
Representative Guy Reschenthaler, (R-PA)
Representative Tom Rice, (R-SC)
Representative Denver Riggleman, (R-VA)
Representative Steve Scalise, (R-LA)
Representative David Schweikert, (R-AZ)
Representative Austin Scott, (R-GA)
Representative Adrian Smith, (R-NE)
Representative Jason Smith, (R-MO)
Representative Elise Stefanik, (R-NY)
Representative Ann Wagner, (R-MO)
Representative Mark Walker, (R, NC)
Representative Jackie Walorski, (R-IN)
Representative Michael Waltz, (R-FL)
Representative Brad Wenstrup, (R-OH)
Representative Lee Zeldin, (R-NY)
Governor Greg Abbott, 
Govenor Pete Ricketts, 
Lt. Governor Dan Patrick, 
Secretary Mike Naig, 
Commissioner Kent Leonhardt,
Secretary Ed Buchanan, 
Secretary Paul Pate, 
State Senate President Larry Obhof, 
State Senate President Pro Tem Del Marsh, 
State House Speaker Matthew Shepherd, 
State House Speaker Mike Turzai, 
Approximately 30 additional State, local, and tribal leaders who actively supported USMCA
More Trump: "Two decades of politicians ran for office vowing to replace the NAFTA, and this was a catastrophe the NAFTA .... They never even gave it a shot. They sold out. But I'm not like those other politicians, I guess, in many ways. I keep my promises and I'm fighting for the American worker."
11:29 am — Vice President Pence began remarks.
"I saw first hand how NATFA hallowed out communities."
"We have a president who will always put America first."Lighthizer made some remarks following Pence's. "I mostly want to thank the president of the United States... To do this and to do it under these circumstances is a monumental part of your legacy," he said.
President returned to the mic at 11:41 am. Standing ovation for workers gathered behind the president. Talked about recently signed deal with China.
Had cabinet members and senators come up to join him for signing, as well as other people who worked on the deal.
WH has called lunch lid until 3pm.
WH has called a travel/photo lid. Have a nice night everyone.