Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Super Bowl Sunday and Groundhog Day from West Palm Beach, where it's a breezy 54 degrees and skies are clear. Pool has arrived at Mar-a-Lago security area and been swept. Now holding. We can see our shadows.
Motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach at 9:25 am and arrived at Trump International Golf Club West Palm Beach at 9:32. Drive was uneventful. Few onlookers en route. Two guys waving American flags.
Pool vans peeled off, and we are holding at the library across the street. Your pooler has not seen POTUS today.
Note - Fox has put out a preview clip of Hannity interview.
Pool has left the library and is now holding in vans alongside the Trump International Golf Club property in West Palm Beach.
A person is holding a sign across the street from the entrance to the club: "Remove Trump and impeach the Russian asset"
Note re pool report 2: Other pool members did see POTUS in the Beast this morning departing Mar-a-Lago. Reuters posted a photo.
Motorcade pulled away from the Trump golf club at 3:00 pm. Destination TBD.
Motorcade arrived at Mar-a-Lago at 3:08 pm.
Signs spotted along the way:
Manchurian President
Drain the swamp
Can't impeach my vote
Bloomberg the Polly-Anna Putz
Thanks to co-poolers Jerome Cartillier and Emily Goodin for help spotting signs as we sped by.
[
]
Motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago at 6:09 pm, en route Trump International Golf Club West Palm Beach for Super Bowl LIV viewing party.
Motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club West Palm Beach at 6:19 pm.
Signs seen en route:
Fake ass news
Trump 2020 destiny
How do I get the Hunter Biden deal?
Pool will get to view Potus and FLOTUS watching Florida Atlantic University marching band perform on lawn outside club before party. Color TK. Party itself is closed press.
Band and cheerleaders were already performing for POTUS and FLOTUS when the pool ran up onto the lawn to watch. An unidentified woman stood to the side holding pom poms. FLOTUS wore a white dress with black waistline and black bottoms of sleeves.
After the first song finished, POTUS said "Hello everybody," and then walked among the performers and greeted everyone. They all posed for a group photo with POTUS. The band then played two more songs, "Born to be Wild" and "Old Town Road." At 6:24, Potus and FLOTUS walked into the club. The sunset is gorgeous.
Pool is now holding in the club's grille, where there is food and a TV.
At start of half time, 8:08 pm, Potus came in to the club grille with FLOTUS to talk to the pool. Mostly off the record.
On the record, he said of SOTU:
"We're really looking to giving a very, very positive message."
Motorcade departed Trump International Golf Club West Palm at 9:04 pm, en route Palm Beach International Airport.
Your pooler saw Potus, FLOTUS, Barron, and Melania's parents all getting into the motorcade.
Note: pool's mostly OTR chat with POTUS lasted about 2 and a half minutes.
More color from FAU band performance for the Trumps: Poolers spotted Barron Trump (wearing a suit and tie) with his grandparents, standing behind the Beast. Also, the unidentified woman mentioned in previous pool report is Xiomara Morin, manager of the club.
Motorcade arrived Palm Beach International airport at 9:11 pm.
Pool saw Potus and FLOTUS going up the stairs into Air Force One.
We are rolling for JBA.
Air Force One landed JBA at 11:11 pm.
Potus, FLOTUS and Barron came down the steps at 11:23. Potus waved to pool at bottom of steps. Next down the steps came staff, including Stephen Miller. All walked over to Marine One and boarded.
Marine One lifted off at 11:29 pm.
Handing off to in-town pool.
Good night.