Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool is gathered to enter the Governors Ball. The band is currently playing a rendition of "Yesterday."
The President is now expected to enter the room around 7:25 pm and will likely give remarks. Our TV colleagues who did preset said there is a lectern set up. It is unclear if the remarks will be short or lengthy. There is no Telepromptr.
From White House spokesman Judd Deere:
This evening, President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will host many of our Nation's governors for a formal dinner at the White House. This event demonstrates the President's commitment to building relationships with our Nation's governors to better serve our fellow citizens through bipartisan collaboration.
President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Second Lady Karen Pence
Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney
Pamela Mulvaney, 
Larry Kudlow, 
Lindsay Reynolds, 
Kristan Nevins, 
Rickie Niceta, 
Doug Hoelscher, 
Secretary David Bernhardt, 
Gena Bernhardt, 
Secretary Ben Carson, 
Lacena Carson, 
Administrator Jovita Carranza, 
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Secretary Elaine Chao, 
James Chao, 
Secretary Betsy DeVos, 
Richard DeVos, 
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, 
Claire Lighthizer, 
Acting Director Joseph Maguire, 
Kathleen Maguire, 
Secretary Sonny Perdue, 
Mary Perdue, 
Secretary
Wilbur Ross, 
Hilary Ross, 
Secretary Eugene Scalia, 
Patricia Scalia, 
Acting Director Russell Vought, 
Mary Vought, 
Secretary Robert Wilkie, 
Julia Wilkie, 
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Hope Wolf, 
Gov. Michael "Mike" Dunleavy (R, AK) and First Lady Rose Dunleavy
Gov. William "Asa" Hutchinson (R, AR) and First Lady Susan Hutchinson
Gov. Douglas "Doug" Ducey (R, AZ) and Joseph Ducey (Son)
Gov. Jared Polis (D, CO) and guest Eli Rosen (Staff)
Gov. Ned Lamont (D, CT) and First Lady Ann Huntress Lamont
Gov. Ronald "Ron" DeSantis (R, FL) and First Lady Casey DeSantis
Gov. Brian Kemp (R, GA) and First Lady Marty Kemp
Gov. Lourdes "Lou" Leon Guerrero (D, GU) and First Gentleman Jeffrey Cook
Gov. David Ige (D, HI) and First Lady Dawn Amono-Ige
Gov. Kimberly "Kim" Reynolds (R, IA) and First Gentleman Kevin Reynolds
Gov. Bradley "Brad" Little (R, ID) and guest Zachary Hauge (Staff)
Gov. Eric Holcomb (R, IN) and First Lady Janet Holcomb
Gov. Andrew "Andy" Beshear (D, KY) and First Lady Britainy Beshear
Gov. John Bel Edwards (D, LA) and guest Sarah Ellen Edwards (Daughter)
Gov. Charlie Baker (R, MA) and guest Caroline Baker (Daughter)
Gov. Lawrence "Larry" Hogan (R, MD) and First Lady Yumi Hogan
Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D, MI) and First Gentleman Marc Mallory
Gov. Timothy "Tim" Walz (D, MN) and Sasha Bergman (Staff)
Gov. Michael "Mike" Parson (R, MO) and First Lady Teresa Parson
Gov. Jonathan "Tate" Reeves (R, MS) and First Lady Elee Reeves
Gov. Douglas "Doug" Burgum (R, ND) and First Lady Kathryn Helgaas Burgum
Gov. John "Pete" Ricketts (R, NE) and guest Roscoe Ricketts (Son)
Gov. Christopher "Chris" Sununu (R, NH)
Gov. Philip "Phil" Murphy (D, NJ) and First Lady Tammy Snyder Murphy
Gov. Richard "Mike" DeWine (R, OH) and First Lady Fran DeWine
Gov. John "Kevin" Stitt (R, OK) and First Lady Sarah Stitt
Gov. Wanda Vázquez Garced (NPP, PR) and First Gentleman Jorge Diáz Reverón
Gov. Gina Raimondo (D, RI) and guest Thompson Moffit (Son)
Gov. Henry McMaster (R, SC) and First Lady Peggy McMaster
Gov. Kristi Noem (R, SD) and First Gentleman Bryon Noem
Gov. William "Bill" Lee (R, TN) and First Lady Maria Lee
Gov. Gregory "Greg" Abbott (R, TX) and First Lady Cecilia Abbott
Gov. Gary Herbert (R, UT) and First Lady Jeanette Herbert
Gov. Anthony "Tony" Evers (D, WI) and First Lady Kathy Evers
Bill McBride, 
President Trump and First Lady Melania entered the East Room at 7:54 pm.
He thanked Melania for her work on the ball. He thanked VP Pence.
He said to the governors seated in the room:
"We argue a little bit, but we agree 90 percent of the time."
He said there was a "great turnout." He told the governors if there is anything he can do to call.
He said he would do something tonight that hasn't been done before. After the press leaves, he would open it up for questions and statements from the governors in the room. "We'll have an exciting evening," he said. "This hasn't been done."
Trump then touted trade deals with China, Mexico and Canada and South Korea. He praised the success of the economy. He congratulated the governors on the job they are doing.
"It's not easy being governor," he said.
Check quotes against transcript.
Pool was escorted out at 7:58 pm.
Guests were mingling in small groups when pool came in. Spotted by pool: Florida Governor Ron DeSantis talking to North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos. Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers was seated next to Hilary Geary Ross, Wilbur Ross's spouse.
The room is decorated with green and white flower arrangements. Each table as three long candles burning.
White House called a travel photo lid at 8:03 pm.
Correcting this quote.
Trump did not say: "We argue a little bit, but we agree 90 percent of the time." He said this: "We argue a little bit but 90 percent of the time we get along."
Fuller quotes here:
"We argue a little bit but 90 percent of the time we get along. And I just say call the White House, call me anytime you have difficulty. Because we are all in this together. Our states are doing fantastically well. We have a tremendous sampling of our governors, great turnout tonight which we appreciate. Anything I can do to help you are going to let me know, you are going to call."
"Rather than sitting and making small talk all night, I thought I'd have the press leave. When they depart we'll start asking questions, making statements. If you have any suggestions, we'd love to hear them. If you have any questions, I'd love to answer them."
"That fact is you've all - I know you very well - It's not easy being governor," he said. "You just look at the way our country's doing. We've never done as well as we are doing right now."
Check quotes against transcript.