Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from cloudy Palm Beach. Temp is 70 degrees, rain in the forecast. Pool has mobilized, we've been swept, now sitting in vans at Mar a Lago.
Motorcade on the move from Mar a Lago at 9:42 am. Destination TBD
Motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club West Palm Beach at 9:50 am. Drive was uneventful. Not many onlookers en route.
Pool vans peeled off, we are holding at library across the street.
Pool has left the library and is loaded into the vans, waiting outside the club, but departure could still be a while, we were advised.
Note: I have asked Stephanie for names of any golf partners, other activities while at the club. Also, I asked around the pool, and no one has seen POTUS today.
While pool continues to wait for POTUS in the vans ... some media have asked your pooler if Potus will go to the Miami rally this afternoon featuring Juan Guaido, whom the US recognizes as Venezuela's head of state. I have asked Stephanie, no answer yet. But as time marches on, it's looking increasingly unlikely. Also, rain clouds are building up, and it's sprinkling.
Also: The third annual "Trumpettes" gala to honor President Trump is at Mar-a-Lago tonite. Roseanne Barr is the headliner, acc to the Palm Beach Post.
Motorcade departed the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach at 2:40 pm. It's now raining steadily.
Motorcade arrived at Mar-a-Lago at 2:49 after an uneventful drive.
During the ride, there were onlookers with signs in some spots. Lots of Trump 2020 signs. One woman's sign said "We [emoji] Trump"
2 more signs:
How do I get the Hunter Biden deal
4 more yrs
Travel/photo lid called at 2:48.
Will onpass if I get any more info on potus's day.
Motorcade arrived at Mar-a-Lago at 2:47 pm after an uneventful drive.
During the ride, there were onlookers with signs in some spots. Lots of Trump 2020 signs. One woman's sign said "We [emoji] Trump"
2 more signs:
How do I get the Hunter Biden deal? 4 more yrs
Travel/photo lid called at 2:48 pm.
Will onpass if I get any more info on potus's day.
WH Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham confirms that POTUS will not be heading to Miami for the rally of Juan Guaido, whom the US recognizes as Venezuela's head of state.
In answer to your pooler's question about POTUS's activity today while at his golf club, WH Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham emails that he "also spent the day on calls and in meetings with staff."
>From Judd Deere, deputy White House press secretary:
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada. The two leaders discussed the historic United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, as well as United States and Canadian efforts to monitor, contain, and mitigate the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus. The leaders also agreed on the need for the People's Republic of China to release the two arbitrarily detained Canadian citizens.