Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. It's a grey day at the White House and thus far quiet. I'm your in-town pool.
The president has two public events scheduled today: the March For Life address on the Mall at mid-day and a meeting with mayors at the White House in the 4 pm hour.
Some details from the organizers on his address to the March For Life are attached, including a link to their Facebook livestream. Event will also be live-streamed at 
(as will be the mayors event.)
Pool will send color and top-line quotes. Hit me w/ any questions.
Attachments don't go through on the WH distro, so here is text of the MFL press packet stuff, for those interested. Offered as a courtesy only:
 

 •Mexico City policy reinstated and broadened
 •Nomination and confirmation of Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh to SCOTUS
 •Excellent judicial nominations at a record pace at the appeals and district courts
 •Returning Title X funding decisions to the state
 •DOJ launching formal investigation into Planned Parenthood
 •Expanding religious and conscience exemption of HHS mandate
 •VP Pence becoming first sitting VP to address MFL in person; President Trump recognizing MFL on national TV interview
 •President Trump speaking via video at the 2019 March for Life
 •President Trump nationally condemning late term abortion and infanticide
 

 

POTUS motorcade rolling at 12:07 pm for the March For Life a few blocks away.
Pool had a brief glimpse of the president boarding the motorcade at 12:06.
Last report should have been labeled #3
President Trump is wearing a dark navy overcoat and red tie.
Walked out at 12:25 to "God Bless the USA" and shook hands with rally organizers and others on stage. He applauded along with the music and loud cheering.
At 12:27 he is beginning.
Some color tidbits:
Lots of MAGA hats in the crowd, and pro-Trump signs along with pro-life slogans.
Selections among signs and placards:
"Trump 2020" in the front row
"I vote Pro-Life First"
"Save The Baby Humans"
"Make Unborn Babies Great Again" (carried by a kid in a Nats beanie)
Pool spotted a kiosk selling Trump gear about a block away.
Before Trump took the stage there was a crowd chant of "Trump-Trump-Trump" but it was not very loud and ended quickly.
"House of the Rising Sun" was among pre-speech tunes
The president drew loud applause for noting he is the first president to address the march, and again for mentions of his confirmation of two Supreme Court justices and a listing of anti-abortion and religious liberty policy actions.
"We all know how to win. You've been winning for a long time," Trump said, prompting a chant of "Four More Years."
He linked the centennial of women's suffrage to pro-life voting and praised pro-life charity work.
"You stand for life each and every day," Trump said.
"You make it your life's mission to spread God's grace."
"Mothers are heroes"
"Every person is worth protecting."
As he wrapped up a guy shouted "I Live You!" Really loud.
He wrapped at 12:40 and "You Can't Always Get What You Want" began playing.
Pool is loaded for return to WH.
As always check quotes against broadcast and transcript.
From the White House
Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks at the 47th Annual March for Life. It is fitting that President Trump would be the first President in history to attend the March on the National Mall because no other president has done more for the pro-life community. President Trump continues to keep his promise to appoint pro-life judges, cut taxpayer funding for abortions, and fight against disgusting late-term abortions liberals now support. Today, President Trump personally reaffirms his commitment to Life with thousands of fellow Americans.
President Donald J. Trump
Secretary Alex Azar, 
Representative Steve Scalise, 
Representative Chris Smith, 
First Lady Donna Hutto Edwards, 
His Grace Bishop Apostolos, 
Jeanne Mancini, 
Patrick Kelly, 
Penny Nance, 
Alveda King, 
Marjorie Dannenfelser, 
Motorcade rolled at 1 pm and reached the White House South Lawn driveway at 1:06 pm. Pool did not see the president disembark.
Counselor Conway stuck around in the briefing room following interviews with Fox and WTN.
Approx 13-minute gaggle
just wrapped around 3:09 with a scrap between KAC and CNN.
Topics covered included impeachment, USMCA signing, the March for Life and the coronavirus.
No news but some good quotes TK
Selected Kellyanne Conway quotes in a gaggle in the James A. Brady Briefing Room:
"Too many people have read into the call words that aren't there, because it fits their own convenience. I don't see the word Ôaid.' I don't see the word Ô2020.' I don't see any mention of Joe Biden as his spooky political opponent. That would be foolish. Have you seen this guy? He doesn't know if he's in Iowa or Ohio, he's screaming at Ed O'Keefe, who's a great reporter for CBS News the other day, and he can't even get an endorsement from the resident he served for eight years in the building. It's sort of embarrassing."
"if anybody should be interested in investigating corruption in Ukraine, it's probably the members of Congress who are wasting their time investigating the president instead and have just whistled right past the fact that Hunter Biden got $83,000 a month. If that's true, it's over $1 million a year. His father has no energy, but Hunter Biden has no energy experience."
Q: did impeachment play a role in decision to address the March For Life?
A: "Zero. It has to do with the fact that he's pro-life and the march is right outside the door, right around the corner."
"To be the first president was very special for this president"
"Impeachment has nothing to do with anything he's doing, because if it did he wouldn't go to Davos, he went to the March For Life, He went to Doral yesterday, we are on the way to Wildwood N.J."
"He's just going to continue to do what he's doing, barreling through and he's doing his job as president. I think the real question is why is Congress not doing its job. If they had gotten this excited and this animated and sent this much time on infrastructure we'd have a package. On drug pricing, it would be lower. On keeping this economy gong. there is so much unfinished business by this congress and this is how they choose to spend their time."
Refers q on the ABC audio about Yovanovitch to Grisham statement from earlier today.
Says she does not know when he will sign USMCA but that he looks forward to doing so.
On coronavirus: "We're monitoring it."
Went back and forth at the end about whether she had heard a question from CNN, and said CNN analysts had lied on air in recent days.
Room:
"Too many people have read into the call words that aren't there, because it fits their own convenience. I don't see the word Ôaid.' I don't see the word Ô2020.' I don't see any mention of Joe Biden as his spooky political opponent. That would be foolish. Have you seen this guy? He doesn't know if he's in Iowa or Ohio, he's screaming at Ed O'Keefe, who's a great reporter for CBS News the other day, and he can't even get an endorsement from the 
 he served for eight years in 
building. It's sort of embarrassing."
Pool and precredentialed media were escorted to the East Room at 4:10 for the event with visiting mayors.
Event is open to credentialed media and live-streamed. Pool will effort color, etc.
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will host a bipartisan group of the Nation's mayors to highlight Administration priorities and accomplishments for transforming American communities through innovative approaches to urban revitalization and rural prosperity. The meeting is a continuation of the President and his White House's unprecedented outreach and engagement with State and local elected officials through the State Leadership Days Initiative.
The Initiative has welcomed a bipartisan group of over 5,000 county and municipal officials to the White House for briefings and discussion with Senior Administration Officials around shared Federal-State-local priorities. Attendees will discuss Opportunity Zone implementation, criminal justice reform, combatting the opioid/drug crisis, reducing crime, addressing homelessness and housing affordability, and nurturing economic growth in our Nation's cities and towns.
The President will sign H.R. 2476, Securing American Nonprofit Organizations Against Terrorism Act of 2019, which appropriates $75 million per year, for the next five years ($375 million total), to protect our houses of worship and other nonprofits from terrorist attacks through target hardening and enhanced security measures.
President Donald J. Trump
Kellyanne Conway, 
Larry Kudlow, 
Joe Grogan, 
Jennie Lichter, 
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Doug Hoelscher, 
William Crozer, 
Director,
Secretary Alex Azar,
Secretary Ben Carson, 
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Administrator Jovita Carranza,
Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General Claire McCusker Murray, 
Bipartisan group of approximately 170 mayors from nearly 40 States
Eric Fingerhut, 
Rabbi Levi Shemtov, 
Pastor Jack Graham & Mrs. Deb Graham, 
President Trump was announced at 4:37 pm and entered the East Room to a sea of raised phones.
He largely read his remarks from three screens arrayed around the foyer side of the room but as-libbed a bit too.
The room was full.
As of this writing the White House has not provided a list of attending mayors, but NYC Mayor Bill DiBlasio was not here.
He thanked those in attendance and noted "a few people didn't accept."
His remarks touched on, among other things; the China trade deal; sanctuary cities; border security; charter schools/school choice; what he said is the "best economy" in US history; childcare affordability; paid family leave for government employees; the cost of prescription drugs; housing regulation; mental health; antisemitism and religious bigotry; infrastructure and speedier approval for infrastructure projects; "you may get rejected but it's going to go quickly," he said to applause.
The signing took place at 4:58 pm but pool could not see it over the standing crowd.
Trump then posed for pictures with several mayors and shook hands along a line of them as he moved out of the room.
At 5 pm he was out of the room.
Called at 5:18 p.m.
That's it for me, unless there are evening statements or other updates to pass along.
Cheers,
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The two leaders discussed important regional and bilateral issues, including working together to ensure the security of our telecommunications networks.