Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Palm Beach where the temperature is 70F and pool is holding outside Mar-A-Lago.
POTUS has no public events listed for this morning but is due to head to Austin this afternoon to address the American Farm Bureau Federation Annual Convention and Trade Show.
Motorcade is rolling from Mar-a-Lago at 08:37 for unknown destination.
Motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club at 08:45.
Pool vans peeled off at golf club entrance and are now holding at the library across street.
Motorcade is rolling at 12:37 from Trump International Golf Club.
White House provided no further details of POTUS's activities this morning despite request.
Motorcade arrived back at Mar-a-Lago at 12:47. Pool vans peeled off at gate to hold outside.
POTUS tweeted during the journey about how much he was looking forward to this evening's trip to Austin.
En route, supporters were gathered on the usual corner. Signs reading "Dogs for Trump," and "NYPD for Trump," on display. Chants of "Four more years," could be heard and some thumbs down were directed at press vans.
Motorcade is rolling from Mar-a-Lago at 14:34 en route to Palm Beach International Airport for departure to Austin, Tx.
Pool has not yet laid eyes on POTUS today.
Light breeze, blue sky and temperature of 81F.
Motorcade arrived at Palm Beach International Airport at 14.44 POTUS climbed stairs and boarded immediately by himself.
A lot more supporters than protesters along the road. Signs included: "Greeks for Trump," "We love Melania," and "Fake impeachment."
Air Force One reg today is 29000.
Wheels up imminently.
Omitted destination from report #7. It is Austin. Apologies.
Air Force One wheels down Austin-Bergstrom International Airport at 16:18 CST.
POTUS is due to deliver remarks to the American Farm Bureau Federation Annual Convention and Trade Show.
The event will be live streamed at 
Pool will be on hand for all extra colour and detail.
Mick Mulvaney, Dan Scavino, Steven Groves all travelled with POTUS to Austin-Bergstrom International Airport.
POTUS emerged after a brief delay and waved to the line of greeters from the top of the stairs.
Motorcade rolling at 16:36 local.
White House sends along list of greeters.
The President is met by:
Representative John Carter
United States Representative from Texas' 31st Congressional District
Representative Randy Weber
United States Representative from Texas'14th Congressional District
Representative Roger Williams
United States Representative from Texas' 25th Congressional District
Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick
Lieutenant Governor of Texas
State Attorney General Ken Paxton
State Attorney General of Texas
State Senator Dawn Buckingham
State Senator from Texas' 24th State Senate District
Motorcade arrived at convention center at 16:58 after uneventful journey.
POTUS due to address the American Farm Bureau Federation Annual Convention and Trade Show shortly.
Supporters were outnumberes by protesters near the convention center. Some shouted "Lock him up." Supporters had "TRUMP 2020 no more bulls---" signs. Mounted police looked on.
The convention is in a huge hangar-like space with a vast stage, decorated by a wood-patterned back drop. "Farm Bureau: the future of agriculture," and "Farm Bureau Proud," are the two slogans displayed across the stage.
Nessun Dorma, Tom Petty's Won't Back Down and Elton John's I Guess That's Why They Call it the Blues provide the warm-up music.
Seating stretches at least 30 rows back and extends for approximately 100 yards left to right.
Several hands went up in a Kansas City Chiefs tomahawk chop at the conclusion of the AFC Championship Game while they waited for POTUS.
44724309095_d004613fc8_o.jpg
Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue takes the stage to introduce POTUS:
"You all know that farming's tough. But let me tell you our president's tough."
Described phase 1 of the China deal as "A bonanza for American farmers doubling exports to China."
POTUS walks out to a standing ovation at 17:29 local. Intro music — I'm Proud to be an American — keeps playing forcing POTUS to step away from the lectern and thank the crowd some more.
Immediately it ends he asks everyone to sit down: "let's stay for a while."
Reminded that the speech is being transmitted live here: 
POTUS used his speech to thank Texas and its farmers for their support, and he celebrated the recent signing of Phase 1 of the China deal, while railing against impeachment.
He described trade deals signed last week as "just the beginning."
"What do I get out of it? I get impeached. By these radical left lunatics. But it's Ok. The farmers are sticking with Trump." That line produced the biggest cheer of the night so far.
He is still speaking after 23 minutes.
"Under the last administration net farm income plummeted by more than 20%."
Under Trump... "Net farm income has gone up by … nearly 50% in just three years"
"You stayed in the fight, your protected our economy and security. And together… we prevailed."
"It's much bigger and much better than I expected."
Says he had to walk away from negotiating table multiple times to get the deal done, but always got called back.
"We walked from this one a lot."
I don't know anything about it. But I know we had a problem.
POTUS wrapped up after 43 minutes hitting familiar themes of energy independence, historically low unemployment rates, threat of regulations from Democrats, a blue-collar boom.
He announced he was ordering the withdrawal of the Water Resources rule which he said allowed federal government to restrict access to water.
"That is why I'm directing the Corps of Engineers to withdraw the rule… and to allow states to manage water resources based on their own needs and what famers and ranchers want. Water is the lifeblood of agriculture and we will always protect your water supply."
"This is a blue collar boom. Net worth for the bottom 50% of wage earners has grown 15 times more than under the three prior administrations."
Said wages growing faster for the bottom 10% than the top 10%
"The far left want to massively raise your taxes, crush your businesses with regulations, take away your health care.
"The best days for America's farmers are yet to come."
44724309095_d004613fc8_o.jpg
Motorcade is rolling from convention center to airport at 18:19 local.
Air Force One wheels down at Andrews at 22:10.
POTUS waved to the Pool as he disembarked Air Force One and headed straight to Marine One which was wheels up at 22:27.
That's it. Handing on to In Town Pool. Good night. Thanks all.
Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from your in-town print pooler.
Marine One touched down at 10:39 pm. President Trump walked inside the residence at 10:42 pm and waved to the press as he walked by, but did not stop to talk.
With that, we have a travel/photo lid at 10:42 pm. Have a good night.
Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Sunday, y'all. I'm your local pooler in Austin where it's windy, sunny and 56 degrees. Air Force One was wheels down at 4:18 p.m. local time. POTUS disembarked shortly after 4:30 p.m.
Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick and Attorney General Ken Paxton were among a handful of greeters awaiting the president's arrival.
The airport is located about 15 miles southeast from the convention center.
Motorcade headed north on I-35 and exited at Cesar Chavez, where protesters and supporters lined both sides of the street.
A line of police officers kept back demonstrators across the street from the convention center.
Pool was seated shortly before 5 p.m. ahead of the president's Farm Bureau remarks.
It's a massive crowd here in the convention center. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue introduced the president, who took the stage around 5:30 p.m. "Soon, very soon, he will sign USMCA agreement into law," Perdue said.
POTUS promised that he would come back to the annual Farmer's Bureau convention next year. Sending over a few Texas-related comments:
The president thanked Texas Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, Attorney General Ken Paxton and Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller. He called Reps. Randy Weber, John Carter and Roger Williams "warriors."
The president was impressed with Sid Miller's "big, beautiful cowboy hat" and said he "would be the biggest buyer" of the cowboy hat if he could wear them in D.C.
Trump says the border wall will be "very successful," but he wants people to be able to come into the country legally. No mention of Gov. Greg Abbott's decision to keep Texas from participating in the federal refugee resettlement program.
POTUS still speaking at 6:05 p.m.
Mostly uneventful ride back to the airport, with some straggling protestors on Cesar Chavez Street. POTUS immediately boarded Air Force One.
AF1 was wheels up at 6:52 p.m.
It's been a pleasure.