Pool Reports by 
, 
Marine One was wheels down at JB Andrews at 15:16.
POTUS boarded AF1 without taking questions. He is with FLOTUS and Barron, plus FLOTUS's parents.
Palm Beach International Airport is the next stop for a Mar-a-Lago weekend. We will be wheels up momentarily.
AF 1 registration is 29000
POTUS is due to take part in a roundtable with supporters and address a finance committee dinner this evening.
Both are currently closed press but Pool will endeavour to find out more.
Air Force One is wheels down at Palm Beach International Airport at 17:14.
Uneventful flight with no visitors to the rear cabin.
In-flight entertainment for the First Family's trip to Mar-a-Lago was the Downton Abbey movie.
Air Force One is wheels down at Palm Beach International Airport at 17:14.
Uneventful flight with no visitors to the rear cabin.
In-flight entertainment for the First Family's trip to Mar-a-Lago was the Downton Abbey movie.
(Sending without picture)
POTUS emerged from AF1 (after sending tweets on Iran and Virginia) to cheers and chants of USA from a crowd of 100 or so supporters.
No official greeters.
Motorcade rolling at 17:26.
Black clouds overhead for POTUS arrival
Motorcade arrived Mar-a-Lago 17:38 as pool peeled off.
Supporters with flags and opponents with Corrupt and Resign banners appeared to alternate corners on the route in. And an eagle-eyed colleague spotted an LSU flag.
We have a travel/photo lid at 17:46.
Campaign sends along the following background on tonight's fundraising event:
“Tonight’s Trump Victory fundraiser is expected to raise $10 million with approximately 100 people in attendance.”
From Steven Groves, Deputy Press Secretary –
The President will participate in a fundraiser for Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee authorized by and composed of Donald J. Trump for President, Inc. and the Republican National Committee.
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from your friendly neighborhood print pooler on this chilly Friday morning in the nation’s capital!
POTUS has a light public schedule today. A ceremony congratulating the 2019 College Football National Champions, the Louisiana State University Tigers is scheduled for 11 a.m. The President and the First Lady are scheduled depart the White House en route to Joint Base Andrews for their trip to
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool at that point.
POTUS arrived at 11:050 a.m. for his ceremony with the 2019 College Football National Champions LSU Tigers.
The White House provided the following information on the ceremony:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will host the 2019 National Championship Football team: the Louisiana State University Tigers. The LSU Tigers completed their football season undefeated after their National Championship victory against the Clemson Tigers on Monday, January 13, 2020. The President attended the National Championship game in New Orleans, Louisiana and received rousing applause from the audience. This is the LSU Tigers fourth National Championship win.
President Donald J. Trump
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, United States Trade Representative
Tim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Andrew Giuliani, Special Assistant to the President and Associate Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Senator Bill Cassidy, Louisiana
Representative Steve Scalise, Louisiana 1^st
Representative Clay Higgins, Louisiana 3^rd
Representative Mike Johnson, Louisiana 4^th
Representative Garret Graves, Louisiana 6^th
Attorney General Jeff Landry
Secretary of State Kyle Ardoin
Interim President Thomas C. Galligan, Louisiana State University
Coach Ed Orgeron, Head Coach of the Louisiana State University Tigers
National Championship Team players
President Trump said of the LSU Tigers:
"The team is said to be one of the best ever, maybe the best ever."
"This team showed the world what it means to look out for another."
Of LSU Coach Ed Orgeron, POTUS said: "If I was casting a movie, I told them today, that's my football coach. There's nobody that can play the role better."
POTUS said of LSU: "On the road to the title, this team overcame a brutal schedule. You didn't have too many easy weeks."
POTUS on the National Championship Game:
"This was a great game, and the ratings were tremendous...Too many flags. You know the referees, they want to get themselves in the limelight."
"They went to that game against a team that was 28-0, and I don't think they ever had a doubt about what going to be happening."
Of quarterback Joe Burrow, POTUS quipped: "Oh he's going to be so rich."
Coach Orgeron said: "What an honor to be here in the White House."
QB Joe Burrow also said it was "truly an honor to be here.
"Thank you for having us so soon after the game so the seniors could be a part of this. It's a moment we'll never forget," Burrow said to POTUS.
Burrow presented Trump with a commemorative LSU jersey. POTUS quipped in response: "I thought he was giving me the Heisman Trophy. He's just giving me a jersey."
POTUS invited the team to the Oval Office and extolled the virtues of the Resolute Desk, where POTUS said "a lot of presidents, some good, some not so good" have worked.
"But you've got a good one now," Trump said. "Even though they are trying to impeach the son of a bitch."
Please check all quotes against the official transcript.
The White House has declared a lunch lid until 2:15 p.m.
POTUS and the First Family boarded Marine One at 3:02 p.m. POTUS did not stop to gaggle with assembled reporters, and he ignored shouted questions en route to the helicopter.