Pool Reports by 
, 
Davos meetings
President Donald J. Trump will conduct bilateral meetings with the following leaders during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland:
Dr. Barham Salih, President of the Republic of Iraq
Imran Khan of Pakistan, Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Simonetta Sommaruga, President of the Swiss Confederation
Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission
Nechirvan Barzani, President of the Kurdistan Regional Government
World Economic Forum Founder and Executive Chairman Klaus Schwab
Holiday pool movement
The pool is on the move to an undisclosed location.
Motorcade pulled out of the White House at 4:25 p.m.
More details soon.
Visit to MLK Memorial
President Trump is making a visit to the Martin Luther King, Jr., Memorial to pay his holiday respects.
The motorcade arrived at 4:32 p.m.
More to come on the event.
MLK Memorial
A mixture of cheers and boos greeted President Trump and Vice President Pence as they arrived at the MLK Memorial at around 4:33 p.m.
Trump smiled and waved.
Trump and Pence stood at the base of the MLK sculpture for a minute, their heads bowed.
Some members of the crowd chanted " U-S-A! " A few delivered sustained boos.
Pool was pulled out after less than two minutes.
Motorcade returned to White House at 4:42 p.m.
Macron call
A White House readout:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. The two leaders agreed it is important to complete successful negotiations on the digital services tax, and they also discussed other bilateral issues.
Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool has gathered on the White House South Lawn awaiting POTUS departure for JBA. Departure is scheduled for 6:15 pm.
Just FYI ... I am taking over today's pool shift for my colleague, David Jackson, who sent the print pool reports earlier today.
POTUS walked out of the White House at 6:17 pm and gave a thumbs up to reporters but did not take any questions. He immediately boarded Marine One, which was wheels up 6:22 pm.
Those accompanying POTUS included Jared Kushner, Larry Kudlow and Stephen Miller.
Pool Reports by 
, 
POTUS stepped off of Marine One at 6:35 pm.
He was wearing a red tie and dark overcoat. He waved to the assembled reporters, but did not take questions. He waved again at the top of the stairs and entered AF1 at 6:36 pm
AF1 should be departing soon. We're heading to Switzerland. The flight is slated to last 7 hours and 50 minutes. As always, we won't have internet on AF1
We are wheels up en route to Switzerland at 6:45 pm.