President Trump just signed the Phase One Trade Agreement! China has taken advantage of the US for years. President Trump stood up for Americans and fought for the fairness our workers deserve."

"The contrast is clear: Today @
 signed his trade deal with China that puts America first—another huge win for workers, farmers, and consumers. Meanwhile Dems are wasting more time on their impeachment charade. It's obvious who's actually working for our country."

"I commend @POTUS and his team—particularly U.S. Trade Rep Lighthizer—for successfully negotiating the Phase 1 US-China Trade Agreement, an important, serious, much-needed first step in resetting this economic relationship. Importantly, it is positive news for Alaska's fishermen."

"For far too long, China's one-sided trade practices have been harmful to American farmers, manufacturers and workers. President Trump set out to force a change in behavior and the phase one deal his team negotiated, when properly implemented and enforced, can achieve that goal. It is a promising step in the right direction."

"Great news for AZ workers! @POTUS just signed #PhaseOne of a U.S.-China trade agreement that will protect American technology & innovation and increase agriculture trade between our countries."

 "President Trump deserves credit for tackling the defining geopolitical issue of this century."

 "President Trump is the first president in decades to actually stand up and fight for a level playing field with our trading partners around the world."

"Today, @POTUS signed a historic trade deal w/ China that will secure a bright future for our nation. Through this agreement, we will back GA farmers, bolster American manufacturing & keep our country safe. I applaud @POTUS and his Admin for their resilience on this landmark deal."

"BIG [week] for @realDonaldTrump & his trade deals [great] victories [with] China phase 1 + [today] USMCA passed Senate w overwhelming bipartisan vote 89-10 I was glad [to] lead this effort in Senate [working] in bipartisan way [to] deliver much needed certainty for American farmers + manufacturers + workers."

"The phase one trade agreement with China, a critical market for Iowans, will be a boon for our farmers and manufacturers. Now, we've got to keep the pressure on China to uphold their end of the bargain as we move into phase two."

"Congratulations to @POTUS on signing phase one of a trade deal with #China. As discussions with China proceed, I encourage everyone to focus on enforcement to advance the rights of U.S. farmers and producers, and ensure China plays fair."

"Thank you, @POTUS, for having me today to see the historic signing of 'Phase One' of a trade agreement with China. This will be monumental for Idaho's farmers, ranchers and producers. #ChinaTradeDeal"

 "Today's news on the US / China trade deal is welcomed as we work to combat China's aggression."

"When President @realDonaldTrump made trade with China a big issue, it was long overdue. China plays the long game, but in the short run they're feeling the pinch in their economy. We always need to be cautious with them, but we should all be glad Trump got them to the table."

 "It's a good day for American businesses, especially farmers and ranchers. This agreement is a big step towards a stronger, more reliable trading relationship between the U.S. and China. I'm glad to see this administration holding China accountable. And, I look forward to seeing this framework established and launching the next phase of this important agreement."

"Louisiana farmers and energy workers win as a result of today's phase 1 trade deal with China. China agrees to buy an additional $32B in agriculture and $52.4B in energy products! Great work @POTUS & @USTradeRep!"

"The inclusion of this provision in the Phase One Trade Agreement is a significant victory for Maine's lobster industry, which has been unfairly harmed by retaliatory tariffs. I appreciate USTR Lighthizer's responsiveness to the concerns industry members & I raised and for his efforts to secure the provision in the agreement."

"The first phase of President @realDonaldTrump's trade deal with China is a big step forward for commerce between our nations. Our farmers can expect fewer barriers to exports, and our businesses have won important protections for their intellectual property."

"President Trump is on a winning streak. Trade deals w/ Japan, Mexico&Canada, and China. @realDonaldTrump is obsessed w/ growing jobs and securing trade wins, Dems are obsessed w/ impeachment."

 "Congratulations to @realDonaldTrump on signing phase 1 of this trade deal with China. With it, farmers are winning, small businesses are winning, & North Carolinians across the board are winning. The President's negotiating tactics are clearly working."

"Joined the President at the White House today for signing of the phase-one China trade agreement. This is very important for our farmers & ranchers as China has agreed to purchase $40-$50 billion in #agriculture products."

 "This deal is a major victory for the United States and for North Dakota! I thank President @realDonaldTrump for fighting tirelessly to deliver trade deals that are good for North Dakota's producers and put American interests first."

: "Thank you @realDonaldTrump and your team for working hard to negotiate this trade deal with China. Nebraska will now be able to expand our market access. This deal will bring much needed economic certainty to manufacturing, ag & energy."

"The #ChinaTradeDeal is a really good first step. @realDonaldTrump and @USTradeRep delivered an agreement that will level the playing field for American workers, address China's unfair trade practices & provide a big economic boost for our farmers."

"@POTUS is the 1st president to take China seriously—made clear yet again with the signing of today's trade deal. He understands that for too long, our trade relationship with China has been flawed & that we need real & permanent fixes."

"Congratulations to @RealDonaldTrump on getting the Phase-One Trade Agreement w/ China done. Every president has tried to get China to be more fair in their trade–more ag sales, greater intellectual property protections & first step toward a more open market."

"Glad to have been at the @WhiteHouse for today's event where the phase one trade deal with China became official. This is good progress."

"The 'phase one' deal signed today is great news for South Dakota farmers, ranchers and manufacturers. Under this agreement, China has agreed to purchase at least $40 billion of our agricultural products. … I thank President Trump for his efforts to make sure our farmers, ranchers and manufacturers are getting a fair deal."

"This is a solid win for our farmers and manufactures – China will be purchasing $200 billion in American goods and services over the next two years. From day one, our farmers have stood behind @realDonaldTrump as he fought to secure a better deal."

 "The Dow industrials rose to a new milestone after an initial U.S.-China trade pact"

"I commend @realDonaldTrump for leaning in hard to work toward fair and reciprocal trade with China. This is welcome news for farmers and ranchers in the Lone Star State and across the country who want access to Chinese markets."

 "Best view in the house watching @realDonaldTrump sign #PhaseOne of the U.S.-China Deal! This is great news, especially for West Virginia's hardwood and met coal industries. I've been working for months with @USTradeRep to make sure those industries were included."

 "#USMCA isn't the only trade victory. Since taking office, @realDonaldTrump implemented new deals with South Korea & Japan. He also forced China to the negotiating table & signed a deal to open Chinese markets to a variety of American products including Wyo beef & energy exports."

: "@realDonaldTrump continues to follow through on his promise to stand up for our nation's farmers and ranchers. #ChinaTradeDeal"

"One of my top priorities has been working to ensure the #USA has access to free and balanced trade relationships. The Phase One trade deal with China will benefit all American consumers and reflects the work @realDonaldTrump & @USTradeRep have done to further grow our economy."

"The signing of the United States and China Phase One trade agreement is a major accomplishment. For the first time we are holding China accountable for its abusive practices and unfair behavior that has harmed American workers and our local businesses."

"With #USMCA's passage moving forward in the Senate, @realDonaldTrump secures another vital trade deal today with China. Highlights include China's purchase of $200 billion of U.S. goods and promises to remedy issues like intellectual property theft."

"About to enter the White House to join President Trump for the signing of an important trade deal with China. This initial trade agreement will open Chinese markets to more American products and protect American technology."

"I applaud @realDonaldTrump for bringing #China to the table to negotiate a Phase I trade deal & bring relief to our #ag workers in FL. This first step is critical in holding China accountable for abuses in our trade relationship. We will see what Phase II brings."

: "Two BIG wins for American workers this week! – China agrees to purchase an additional $200 billion in US goods over the next 2 yrs in historic trade agreement secured by @realDonaldTrump – Senate approved the #USMCA, estimated to create nearly 180,000 new jobs here in America."

"Today, President @realDonaldTrump signed 'Phase One' of his historic US-China trade deal. The agreement addresses China's unfair trade practices and includes several of Americas top priorities. This is a big win for American workers and businesses."

"For decades, China has been taking advantage of America's economy, innovators, and workers. @realDonaldTrump promised to stop their unfair trading practices. #PhaseOne will boost the U.S. economy and protect American workers. #PromisesMadePromisesKept, thank you @POTUS!"

"Between the signing of the Phase One Agreement with China and USMCA finally passing both chambers, this is a good week for farmers and American workers."

 "The phase one trade deal with China is a historic agreement that is substantive & holds China accountable for IP theft & forced tech transfers. Thanks to @realDonaldTrump & @USTradeRep, this deal will level the playing field for American farmers, workers & businesses."

"Nice work @realDonaldTrump! Good for American consumers and great for American jobs. I'm a big fan of bilateral trade agreements. We don't need WTO to tell us what to do."

"Two HUGE trade wins in two days:?? China agrees to purchase additional $200 million of U.S. products?? Senate passes USMCA @realDonaldTrump is delivering for Louisianians!"

"Huge week for American Businesses: – @realDonaldTrump signed #PhaseOne of the historic U.S.-China trade deal – #USMCA passed the senate and is heading to the president's desk."

 "The Phase One U.S./China Trade Deal is going to boost the #NC13 economy. Instead of working with the President, Nancy Pelosi was holding an impeachment pep rally and handing out gold pens on silver plates."

"I was proud to join @realDonaldTrump yesterday as he signed the Phase One agreement w/ China. I look forward to continuing to work with the President to fight for better trade w/ China so we protect #NC10 jobs & ensure our already booming economy maintains its success globally."

 "President Trump continues to deliver in the face of non-stop political attacks from House Democrats. We've now got a phase I trade deal with China—in ADDITION to already record jobs numbers, wage increases, and economic growth. Let's keep it going. @realDonaldTrump."

 :"China had a 5:1 trade surplus advantage over the US, due to their internal subsidies, predatory trade practices, & blocking our exports. Overtime, their duplicity grew worse. Glad @POTUS is defending America. We can now equally compete with China. I support free, but fair trade."

: "Thank you, President Trump, for aggressively renegotiating trade policy with China. Important first step. @realDonaldTrump #ChinaTradeDeal"

"Thank you @POTUS for the invitation to today's China trade agreement signing at the White House. This agreement with China is a positive first step toward addressing one of our biggest trade challenges."

 "Big announcement just came out of the White House with the President signing Phase I of a trade deal with China filled with great progress that will benefit a US economy that is strong and now getting even stronger."

"Encouraged to see the phase 1 signing of a trade deal with #China. Important action on IP theft, trade secrets, and market access for American goods and services. Still work to be done, but I am thrilled to see this step in the right direction to force China to play by the rules."

"This was a big step toward establishing fair trade practices with China and enabling American workers and businesses to compete on a level playing field."

"THIS WEEK: After withholding 'urgent' impeachment articles from the Senate for 28 days, Speaker Pelosi FINALLY allowed a vote to move the process forward. Meanwhile...new economic victories thanks to @POTUS: – USMCA clears the Senate – Phase 1 of China Trade Deal signed."

 "The era of economic surrender is over! Great job @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @USTradeRep for achieving the first step in re-balancing our trade relationship with China. Western Pennsylvania workers thank you for your leadership!"

"It's a big week for trade: – Senate passes #USMCA – President Trump signs phase one of China trade deal New market opportunities for our farmers are on the horizon!"

 "Producers want certainty and #China needs to play fair – this agreement hits the mark on both fronts. This Phase One China agreement paired with the #USMCA are the wins our producers need. Thank you @realDonaldTrump!"

 "The Phase One trade agreement boosts exports of American goods and services to China and levels the playing field for American companies looking to do business in China. Thank you @
 and @
 for standing up to China and creating fairer trade for America!"

 "President @realDonaldTrump has delivered for American families and workers despite a constant smear campaign from the left, and the #PhaseOne trade deal with China is only the latest example. Democrats are pushing #impeachment because they literally have no other accomplishments."

"This is a monumental achievement for farmers and ranchers in my district in West Texas and across rural America, who will reap the blessings of China's commitment to purchasing as much as $50 billion worth of U.S. agriculture products."

 "Today, @realDonaldTrump signed 'Phase One' of the new trade agreement w/ China – a historic occasion! The days of China taking advantage of us are finally ending. Now, bad actors will be held accountable & the playing field will be leveled for U.S. families, workers & innovators."

: "@realDonaldTrump delivered another historic victory yesterday with the signing of phase one of a U.S. – China trade deal. This is great news for Texas farmers, energy producers, and manufacturers as it will generate billions in new economic activity!"

 "Thank you @realDonaldTrump for continuing to put America first by signing #PhaseOne of the new trade agreement with China."

"President Trump has signed a historic phase one trade deal with China. These successful negotiations mark an important step in re-balancing our trade relationship with China & are a tremendous victory for our Texas farmers, manufacturers, and innovators."

"Great news for Texas and the nation. I look forward to seeing the bipartisan #USMCA create jobs, strengthen trade with Mexico and Canada and allow us to compete as China tries to replace the United States as the most important economy in the world."

"Every President has pledged to take China on as they steal and rip off the United States and our economy. @realDonaldTrump is the first to actually do it."

"While @SpeakerPelosi was preoccupied handing out custom pens after signing impeachment articles to her henchmen (bizarre), @realDonaldTrump was signing a trade deal with China."

: "Trade is vital to the economic success of #VA05. I am proud of the work that @POTUS has done for our farmers, growers, and producers and am excited to see the tremendous growth the #USMCA and China trade agreements will bring."




"Congratulations to @realDonaldTrump on signing the historic Phase One Trade Agreement with China. Leveling the trade playing field is of national importance, it will boost our economy and help grow #Alaska businesses."

"I applaud @POTUS for signing Phase 1 of the U.S. trade deal with China. This comprehensive agreement is going to help our nation's economy & our state tremendously. We are proud to have Commerce Sec. @gregcanfield represent Alabama at this historic ceremony. @MadeinAL #alpolitics"

"The Phase One trade deal with China is great news for AR's farmers, manufacturers, and businesses. Thank you to @realDonaldTrump for your leadership in securing this historic agreement."

"Today, President Trump secured a historic win for the American people. Forging a stronger trade agreement with China puts Iowa farmers, families, and small businesses first. It was an honor to attend the signing ceremony, at the invitation of the President, and witness such an iconic moment."

"During my economic development trip to China in September, numerous government officials expressed a desire to secure a trade deal and President Trump has delivered. This is a great first step, especially for our Hoosier farmers. We look forward to a continued mutually productive relationship with China, one of Indiana's largest international partners."

"Initial promises from the Phase One Trade Agreement with China include more than $200 billion in purchases that cover a number of industries that thrive in Missouri, including agriculture, energy, manufacturing & other services. A tremendous victory for our American economy!"

"With China committing to purchase at least $200 billion in additional U.S. goods and services over the next two years, including $40 billion to $50 billion in agricultural goods, this agreement represents a major win for North Dakota farmers and ranchers, who are among the best in the world and can compete with anyone on a level playing field."

"Congratulations to President @realDonaldTrump on securing a Phase One trade deal with China. The President's relentless focus on right-sizing our trade relationship with China is important for Nebraska."

"I commend President Trump's work to negotiate better trade deals, first with USMCA and now the Phase One agreement with China. These agreements are significant progress to boost businesses in Ohio and across America."

"I applaud @realDonaldTrump's hard work to finalize the #USChinaTradeDeal. This deal is a win for South Carolina, and all of America. It will be another shot in the arm for the US economy, American manufacturers, service providers, farmers, and more. #SCwinning #USAwinning"

"I arrived at the @WhiteHouse today with a couple of friends from SD… Jerry Schmitz, a soybean producer, and Craig Andersen, a pork producer. They joined me here to be with @realDonaldTrump as he signed the phase one trade agreement with China! A BIG win for SD producers!"

"The Phase 1 agreement with China signed by President Trump today will benefit Wyoming exporters, including the trona, petroleum and agriculture industries, and may open doors for Wyoming technology companies to enhance international partnerships."

"This phase one trade deal is a win for Iowa farmers, producers and rural Iowa! For too long, Iowans have faced uncertainty and unnecessary barriers in getting their products into China. Thank you @POTUS!"

"@GovHolcomb, @ISDAgov and I applaud @realDonaldTrump for making good on his promise to fight for Hoosiers, our workers & businesses. This Phase One Trade Agreement with China is a huge win for America & Indiana agriculture."

"Thank you, @realDonaldTrump, for negotiating a new, transformative trade agreement with China. Agriculture is North Carolina's No. 1 industry and this is a big win for our farmers. This deal also protects innovators building our state's future economy."

"President @realDonaldTrump once again draws on his business experience to negotiate better trade deals for the American people. This historic agreement will not only benefit American farmers & manufacturers, but also other innovators within the U.S. economy. #USChinaTradeDeal."

"Honored to represent @AsaHutchinson and Arkansas Agriculture today at the @WhiteHouse for the historic US-China Trade Agreement! @ARDeptofAgricul"

"I believe a firm hand is necessary to produce a fair deal. I congratulate President Trump for I know he believes that prosperity rises when trade barriers come down. Under the new agreement we look forward to expanding consumer trust of the Georgia Grown brand in China."

"It was an honor to be invited and watch the signing of this historic deal. We are excited to further develop our relationship with China and are looking forward to the positive impact this will have on Indiana agriculture now, and in the future."

"This trade agreement will have an immediate, substantive and positive impact on Louisiana's workers and businesses, especially our farmers."

"Our President, Donald J. Trump has secured an historic and unparalleled Phase One trade agreement with China. As a direct result of his leadership, we have achieved substantial progress towards free trade and a level playing field that benefits American agriculture, manufacturing, energy and services."

"The signing of the Phase One Trade Agreement with China is a welcomed beginning to resolve these trade disputes, and serves as a symbol of the patriotism of our farmers. I'm grateful for the work President Trump is doing on behalf of agriculture and trade."

"Agriculture's goal has always been free and fair trade among countries. Our farmers & ranchers continue to produce the safest and most wholesome farm products in the world and this deal ensures us a level playing field in the global marketplace."

"We are thrilled with the signing of this first phase of trade with China. This is a very good deal for North Carolina agriculture, particularly with tobacco being included on the list."

"I am thankful for the leadership of President Trump and Ambassador Lighthizer on this deal. I am extremely pleased to see these unjustified trade barriers being removed and market access being enhanced for our agricultural producers, manufacturers and innovators."

"The 'Phase One' trade deal with China is huge Texas-sized news for American farmers and ranchers. It is the beginning of a new era for American trade with China and a great step forward for American agriculture. I applaud President Donald Trump, Secretary Sonny Perdue, Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Ambassador Robert Lighthizer on getting this historic trade deal done."

"I would like to thank President Trump for negotiating and signing this historic trade agreement. The reopening of the Chinese agricultural market is a win not only for the economies of the United States and the Navajo Nation, but for the global economy."

"Today's Agreement will reduce our trade deficit with China and will give us a more level playing field by protecting our intellectual property and addressing China's currency manipulation. Make no mistake: the China Phase One Trade Agreement is good for Ohio."

"This agreement is a major win for our economy and should be applauded by all Americans, regardless of political party, as a great first step in creating a more level playing field for the United States. I commend President Trump for his leadership and commitment to negotiate better trade deals which will benefit not only farmers in Alabama but across America."

"As a lover of Florida farmers and a farmer myself, I am thrilled that President Trump is changing the status quo and fighting for American farming families."

"I am thankful to President Trump and his Administration for the progress being made to assist rural communities, farmers, and businesses and especially thankful for the impact this trade deal will have on the district I serve as well as the impact it will have across our State."

"This historic trade deal is a massive win for the American economy and farmers across this Nation."

"This trade agreement is great news at the right time. Through removing trade barriers and expanding markets, this agreement will be more fair to U.S. interests, promote greater Minnesota job growth, and benefit nearly every sector of agriculture in our State."

"President Trump's leadership in renegotiating the trade agreement with China shows a recommitment to supporting famers and agriculture across the nation, instead of foreign interests."

"Agriculture remains the top industry in North Carolina, and by securing this deal President Trump shows us once again that he's supporting hardworking Americans."

"Today's signing of the Phase One trade deal with China is another strong move forward for Ohio's workers, farmers and job creators, especially in western Ohio."

"I commend the hard-work of President Trump and his Administration to seal this deal with China, ensuring fairer trade for the American people."

". I am grateful President Trump has remained steadfast in his commitment to creating opportunities for the hard-working men and women of our state and driving our economy forward."

"I applaud President Trump for working so diligently to improve the livelihood of farmers by engaging in dialog with our trade partners. This particular trade agreement is a win for rural America."

"I am grateful President Trump has remained tough with China and negotiated an agreement that puts America first by rebalancing trade with China."

"This will open up markets that we can sell soybeans that are in our bins right now at a better price."

"This is a great first step toward a broad deal with China that will give an even greater boost to farmers across Minnesota and our country."

"This truly is a great win for Wisconsin farmers and manufacturers!"

"I want to thank our President in his successful negotiation of the Phase One Trade Agreement with China. The timing was critical for our Nation and the strength of the President's positions could not have come at a better time."

"I look forward to [President Trump's] continued efforts in righting the imbalance of trade agreements for the benefit of the American Citizen."

"President Trump's initiatives with China forecast improved farming incentives, a rise in commodity prices and an overall higher-quality agricultural landscape for farmers, not only in Marion County, Florida, but across the Nation."

"The Phase One trade deal is a victory for American farmers, manufacturers, and our economy as a whole."

"I truly believe that Phase One of the trade agreement with China will help our local economy by opening markets and bolstering commodity prices."

"I appreciate President Trump, Sec. Perdue, and so many others in this Administration for the detail and thought into this trade bill with China, it no doubt will pay huge dividends in the future for citizens of America, China, and have a positive effect on other countries as well."

"We would like to thank President Trump for his efforts, along with our own Georgia native Secretary Perdue, for bringing some stability to our commodity markets by this Phase One China Trade Agreement."

"This agreement helps level the playing field, and we could not be more pleased by the efforts of President Trump and the administration. Our farmers will reap the benefits of this trade agreement being signed today."

"President Trump's work on the Phase One Trade Agreement with China displays his dedication to both farmers and consumers across America."

"With over 600,000 acres in Kossuth County this trade deal is a major victory for our farmers, the backbone of our economy locally and nationally."

"The [agreement] is a breath of fresh air to the farmers, citizens, and agricultural industries in our rural Iowa County."

"The USA and China Free Trade Agreement Phase One is important to America and to the great State of Kansas."

"President Trump's commitment to remove trade barriers will directly help job growth and business expansion in Minnesota."

"This monumental trade deal is a substantial win for the U.S. economy and particularly for farmers across Minnesota."

"In short, this trade agreement provides Montana with additional jobs and additional economic benefit for our citizens."

"This agreement between the United States and China is truly needed and very much appreciated."

"This trade agreement is incredible news for the farmers of my County and of North Carolina."

"I want to thank President Trump and his Administration for creating a trade agreement that is fairer for the United States and the hard working famers of the Midwest and Ohio."

"This agreement will positively impact all sectors of our economy and is historic in scope and spectrum."

"Protecting our intellectual property while opening the door to our goods, especially our agricultural sector is a huge win for my community."

"President Trump is a seasoned trade negotiator. This historic trade deal is great for Oklahoma and great for America."

"Today was another history win for the American people with the signing of the Phase I agreement between the United States and the People's Republic of China."

"While this is a first step, it is a major step to free and fair trade and it respects American consumers and business."

"This deal is a tremendous victory for Wisconsin's economy, especially our farmers, manufacturers, and innovators."

"I appreciate President Trump's outreach to local governmental officials like myself and concern for the people and economies of rural Wisconsin, the Midwest, and America."




"ARA applauds the Trump administration, the office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR), and those working behind the scenes to help repair trade relations between the two countries. This agreement will boost U.S. goods and services exports to China by a reported $200 billion over the next two years. That level of economic growth cannot be understated."

"AAPC commends the Trump administration's efforts to secure a phase-one trade agreement with China."

"Today's signing is an important step in giving America's farmers and ranchers the ability to get back to business in the global market."

 "I am very excited about what this agreement means for the U.S. animal food industry and reopening the Chinese market for our products. I'm grateful for the hard work and enduring efforts of our trade negotiators on our behalf and the administration as a whole for defending the enhancement of productive trading relationships and supporting U.S. businesses and exports."

"President Trump may have achieved what almost every American including me viewed as impossible through the signature of the fair and reciprocal phase one U.S.-China trade deal."

"We have long supported changes to how China conducts business with the world, in agriculture and other industries. Today's signing addresses many of those concerns and is a positive for the U.S., including reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade that are important to soybean growers and other agriculture groups."

"The signing of this agreement with China is good for our industry, which is significantly impacted by trade. … It will give a boost to U.S. manufacturers and exporters of American goods and provide certainty to the supply chain – all of which will positively impact the trucking industry."

 "ADM strongly supports the Phase 1 U.S.-China trade agreement, which will bring about meaningful benefits for American food and agriculture by breaking down barriers and addressing systemic issues that have previously impeded full access to the Chinese market."

 "Trade issues with China have long been a priority for BIO and our members. We appreciate the Administration's hard work and leadership and welcome the completion of this important first phase of the agreement."

 "Business Roundtable commends the Administration for completing a Phase One trade agreement with China that begins to level the playing field for American workers and businesses, removes some tariffs and allows for increased trade between both countries."

 "Chubb welcomes and supports the successful completion of the Phase One trade agreement between the United States and China. We congratulate the governments of both nations for achieving this important confidence-building step."

 "We thank the @WhiteHouse for reaching & signing a historic trade deal with China that will benefit our #farmers and American consumers."

"President Trump made a deal that rolls back tariffs and addresses critical tech priorities including intellectual property protections and forced technology transfer."

 "As a company, we support this agreement because we support farmers, who truly want new markets and the free flow of trade. This agreement will help stabilize markets, further expand and modernize trade, and increase grower and consumer access to innovation."

: "The Phase One trade deal represents significant positive progress towards the resolution of several issues currently impacting American payments technology companies who want to operate in China."

 "The Phase 1 agreement signed today by President Trump and Vice Premier Liu is a good first step towards establishing a healthy trade relationship."

"Fitch Group is committed to supporting the development and internationalization of China's capital markets. We want to express our appreciation to President Trump, Vice Premier Liu, and the U.S. and Chinese negotiating teams for this important agreement."

"We congratulate the U.S. and Chinese governments on today's signing of the Phase 1 trade deal, which should expand opportunities for GE's businesses in both the United States and China, and support continued bilateral negotiations that lead to the lifting of remaining tariffs."

 "We're grateful to U.S administration officials for their continued work on securing this trade agreement at such a pivotal time for our nation's agriculture and renewable energy industries."

 "Here For America is encouraged that the U.S. and China have agreed to a Phase One trade deal that allows automakers to continue exporting American-made vehicles."

 "Illinois farmers are ready to regain our trading position with China. … We are well-positioned to fulfill China's demand of soybeans, pork and additional commodities, and this agreement provides a pathway for the next generation of Illinois young farmers."

: "The 'phase one' deal is great news for American consumers and businesses. We commend the Trump Administration for reaching this important moment."

 
"Intel welcomes today's Phase One trade agreement signed by the U.S. and China. We hope this first step leads to greater trade cooperation between the U.S. and China and we encourage governments everywhere to work cooperatively towards free open and fair trade."

 "Today, the two most powerful economies in the world began to restore a positive, mutually beneficial trade relationship, and dairy producers and processors across the United States are grateful."

"IA welcomes today's signing of the U.S.-China Phase One Trade Agreement. This deal will help to limit market access barriers for American internet companies and better protect innovative U.S. intellectual property."

: "Iowa farmers have long pushed for more free and open markets, and we are pleased with the progress towards that goal through the phase one China trade deal. Free and fair trade with China represents countless opportunities for Iowa agriculture in a growing market with a demand for U.S. ag products."

 "The phase one trade deal with China is arguably Trump's most impressive trade victory to date. … I'm already hearing from Job Creators Network members about how the deal is benefitting their bottom lines."

"Minnesota Farm Bureau appreciates today's progress and encourages the administration to continue to aggressively pursue a full trade agreement with China and move forward with protecting and expanding markets across the world."

: "China agreement restores trade certainty to our bilateral relationship and will benefit motor vehicle parts manufacturers."

"[N]o other administration has achieved this level of success with—and accountability of—America's primary economic adversary in the past three decades."

 "We cannot begin to express our thanks to President Trump for fighting for America's cattle producers. … Today is a great day for the U.S. beef industry and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association."

 "Signing the phase one agreement with China is a step in the right direction to resolving the trade dispute with China and restoring the trading relationship between our two countries."

"The signing today of the 'phase one' trade agreement between the United States and the People's Republic of China represents an important step towards helping America's farmers and ranchers expand their exports."

e: "NFI commends the @WhiteHouse @USTradeRep @realDonaldTrump for completing phase-one of the U.S.-China trade agreement. As one of the most traded commodities in the world, #trade is always top of mind for NFI and its members. #TradeMatters #SeafoodSeeJobs #USChinaDeal"

 "The National Grain and Feed Association (NGFA) commends President Trump and his administration for successfully concluding and signing a Phase One trade accord with the People's Republic of China."

 "This signing today, coming on the heels of the new Japan free trade agreement and the anticipated ratification of the USMCA, creates trade momentum for our industry and sets the stage for future increased market access that may result in substantial gains for U.S. growers."

 "NPPC applauds the administration for its hard work in negotiating this deal. China is the world's biggest producer and consumer of pork."

: "National Sorghum Producers was pleased to be a part of the signing today of a Phase One deal with China and applauds both the U.S. and Chinese administrations for their hard work to progress negotiations and reach an agreement that should lessen market uncertainty and shift purchases to more U.S. agriculture products, like sorghum, by our customers in China."

: "Re-opening the door for business in China was a huge win for America's turkey farmers and processors, creating the potential for this to once again become a major market for our products."

: "We are encouraged by the Phase One deal with China, which eliminates non-tariff barriers to trade with our fastest growing market for meat and poultry products."

 "The signing of a trade deal with China is a big step in the right direction as farmers in Ohio and across the country are eager to get back to business globally."

"We are grateful to all the U.S. officials, led by the White House, involved in this effort to provide meaningful access to this important market for so many U.S. products, including pet food."

 "The 'phase one' trade agreement signed today helps ease uncertainty in the semiconductor industry, and we hope it provides a stepping stone to a more comprehensive deal between the world's two largest economies."

 "SIIA welcomes the Phase 1 agreement, especially the protection for intellectual property and ban on forced technology transfers."

"Fair agricultural trade between nations raises the poor out of poverty, generates renewable wealth and supports peace and prosperity for all people."

 "The Phase One trade deal is an important first step in strengthening the rules of trade between the two countries and in particular for providing greater trade predictability to UPS's small and medium sized customers."

 "We appreciate the Administration's help in seeking a level playing field for U.S. rice with China through both historic market access and compliance with WTO requirements."

"This is an encouraging first step that should benefit many of our members…We urge both governments to use the phase one agreement as a foundation for building a stronger, fairer bilateral relationship that ensures a level playing field for Americans in China's rapidly growing market."

"Today's announcement of a deal that makes progress on regulatory restrictions and other nontariff barriers hindering dairy trade is a positive step forward."

"The U.S. Grains Council is pleased to see the signing today of a Phase One deal with China, which should reduce continued market uncertainty and incentivize China to purchase significant amounts of the full range of U.S. agricultural products, including grains, distiller's dried grains with solubles (DDGS) and ethanol, to total at least $80 billion over the next two years."

 "Western Growers applauds the significant strides the Trump Administration has made in securing fairer deals for American farmers with key trading partners around the world."

"It was a chance of a lifetime to join other Farm Bureau presidents and agriculture leaders for this historic event. I was proud to see agriculture in the spotlight and slowly working our way back into this critical market."