Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individual to key positions in his Administration:



Dr. Jacobs is currently the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Environmental Observation and Prediction, where he is responsible for advancement of United States weather prediction, space innovation, unmanned systems, and developing the blue economy. Dr. Jacobs previously served as Chief Scientist at Panasonic, where he directed research and development of aviation weather observing and forecast programs. Before joining Panasonic, Dr. Jacobs worked on various projects including NASA's Earth Systems Science Program, the Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite Program, and the Department of Energy's Ocean Margins Program. He was Chair of the American Meteorological Society's Forecast Improvement Group, and served on the World Meteorological Organization's observing systems expert team. Dr. Jacobs holds bachelor degrees in mathematics and physics from the University of South Carolina and an M.S. in air-sea interaction and a Ph.D. in numerical weather prediction from North Carolina State University. He resides in Durham, North Carolina, with his wife Dr. Jennifer Modliszewski and sons Nicolaus and Theodore.


—

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:



Bryan S. Ware currently serves as the Assistant Secretary for Cyber, Infrastructure, and Resilience Policy at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Ware is responsible for leading department-wide efforts to reduce national risks, with a focus on critical infrastructure, cybersecurity, Federal network security, countering cyber-crime, and improving the security and resilience of the global cyber ecosystem. In 1998, Mr. Ware founded an artificial intelligence company, which he led until it was acquired in 2013 by Haystax. After serving as Chief Technology Officer of Haystax, he served as CEO from 2016 until 2018. Mr. Ware started his professional career with leading defense contractors working on advanced technology programs, including the Star Wars program, early UAV payloads, and counterterrorism technologies. Mr. Ware has been issued multiple patents in artificial intelligence and mobile technology. He holds a degree in Applied Optics from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology.

 


 








The following individuals to be Members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders:

The following individuals to be Members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board:

The following individuals to be Members of the Commission on Presidential Scholars:

The following individuals to be Members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council:

The following individuals to be Members of the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
