Pool Reports by 
, 
This is your pooler check-in. Debra Saunders of the Las Vegas Review Journal kindly agreed to swap pool duty with me today.
I have asked and there is no word from the White House yet on the timing for the president's televised address to the nation on Iran.
The only other thing on the president's schedule is a 2:15 p.m. intelligence briefing.
I'll be sure to update you when I get the word on a time for the address.
Pool has been called to gather at the Palm Room doors to wait for entrance into the Grand Foyer for the president's address on Iran.
The remarks will be public - both on tv and live-streamed here: 
I will provide any color I see from my vantage point both before and after the address.
Pool was ushered into the Grand Foyer at 10:28 am.
There is no word from White House whether POTUS will stick to prepared remarks or take questions.
There's two teleprompters set up in front of the podium with the official presidential seal and an audience of roughly 40 people seated in gold chairs. No one recognizable to pool in the audience - and I have not been given a list of guest names.
No sign of Pompeo or other top administration officials yet. Other than the usual din of television preset and microphone checks, there's been a few sets of musical chair rearranging of the audience but otherwise fairly calm.
I am including a phot of the scene.
44724309095_d004613fc8_o.jpg
The room is much more crowded now with press and cameras filling in the far corners around the audience.
I'm sending an updated photo. POTUS is now 18 mins late with no official word on when he will make his entrance and begin the address.
I'm also told pool will likely be getting a read-our/list on the "guests" that formed the audience.
44724309095_d004613fc8_o.jpg
Pool just received a two minute warning for address to begin
Fellow reporters point out that Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Mark Milley was one of the military leaders standing behind the president.
Colleagues also confirm that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin was also in the room for the speech, standing on the right-hand side, behind the audience next to a column.
No word yet on the identity of the audience members. Pool saw one of audience members wearing a lanyard with the words "White House Situation Room" on it. I could not make out what identification card was on the lanyard.
White House just called a lunch lid at 2 p.m.
White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere provides this terse read-out:
President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. The two leaders discussed the current situation in the Middle East and agreed to continue close coordination in support of shared national security interests.
After POTUS in his Iran address today called on NATO to become more involved in the Middle East, White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere provides this read-out:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The two leaders discussed the current situation in the Middle East. The President emphasized the value of NATO increasing its role in preventing conflict and preserving peace in the Middle East.
The White House called a travel photo lid at 5:48 p.m.
Have a great night, everyone!
The White House provides this read-out of POTUS call with Israeli PM Netanyahu;
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. The two leaders discussed critical bilateral and regional issues.
The White House sent this this read-out late tonight at 10:38 pm:
Today, President Donald J. Trump met briefly with National Security Secretariat Secretary General Shigeru Kitamura of Japan and National Security Office Director Chung Eui-yong of The Republic of Korea. President Trump noted that Japan and the Republic of Korea are two of the United States strongest allies in the Indo-Pacific Region and expressed appreciation for the support and deep friendship the United States shares with both countries.