



Vice President Mike Pence to the men and women of U.S. Army Fort Hood

 
 
 Thank you to the soldiers from the 1st Cavalry Division for the demonstration today at The Great Place, @forthood. Our nation will forever be grateful for your service to our country! 
 
 


 President @realDonaldTrump and I stand with the veterans of our great nation! It was an honor to pay a debt of gratitude today and discuss how we can better support our veterans and help them utilize the benefits they earned wearing the uniform of the United States. 
 
 


 VICE PRESIDENT MEETS WITH #FIRSTTEAM
 Vice President Mike Pence has begun his busy day on #FortHood meeting face-to-face with #Soldiers from the #1stCavalryDivision, seeing first hand the power they bring to the fight.
 #USArmy #Trump #Pence #FirstCav #News #HappeningNow #VPPence 
 
 


 
 on @forthood today getting a look at training exercises. He will attend a round table and also expected to deliver remarks.
 Coverage all day on @kwtx #VPinCenTX #FortHood ???????? 
 
 


 Vice President Mike Pence talks to GIs on Fort Hood about transitioning back to civilian life after their service. 
 
 


 Addressing troops at @forthood, @VP hails US raid leading to death of al-Baghdadi. "This past Sunday was a great day for America." He says the US will "never relent" in its commitment to the "total defeat" of ISIS and any terror org "that threatens our country." 
 


 VP Pence assures troops that "the American people stand with you everyday and Pres Trump will always have your back." Thanking troops for their service, the @VP says America is "more grateful than you will ever know."
 
 


 A crowd of soldiers are waiting for @VP Pence, who will be addressing the crowd after his round table discussion. @KVUE 
 
 


 At #FortHood awaiting @VP Mike Pence's remarks - he's been here observing training and is currently holding a veteran transition roundtable discussion. 
 
 


 
 
AUSTIN, Texas - Vice President Mike Pence made a two-day stop at Fort Hood, Texas, where he met with soldiers and veterans, watched a tank training exercise and visited a memorial to the people who died in the Nov. 5, 2009 shooting at the Army base. "You come from the rest of us, but, make no mistake about it, you are the best of us," Pence said to about 1,000 soldiers and civilian personnel gathered in a 1st Cavalry Division aircraft hangar. He spoke for more than 20 minutes Tuesday morning in his culminating event at the base. His speech touched on several topics including the 77-year history of Fort Hood, Sunday's military operation that brought down Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and various ways that President Donald Trump's administration has benefitted the military. 


FORT HOOD - Vice President Mike Pence capped a rainy Tuesday morning on the nation's largest military installation with a speech to troops huddled inside a sprawling aircraft hanger that was both a morale-booster for the soldiers and a boost for the Trump administration's defense policies. "I think President Donald Trump is the best friend the armed forces ever had," the vice president said in front of a giant American flag that brought to mind the opening of the bio pic "Patton," which chronicled the World War II exploits of Gen. George S. Patton, who once served on the Central Texas post. 
 


FORT HOOD, Texas (AP) - Vice President Mike Pence used a stop at an Army post in Texas to praise U.S. military forces whose weekend raid left Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi dead. Pence on Tuesday addressed troops at Fort Hood. In a patriotic message before a large U.S. flag, he said, "The fight against terrorism goes on." Pence offered greetings from President Donald Trump. He said Trump has "been working to make the strongest military in the history of the world." 
 




 




Clip: KXAN (NBC): 






 




 




 




 




 




 




 




 

