Hello, everybody. We're here to celebrate a great opening and a great gentleman, as you know, from Australia, Anthony Pratt, and most importantly, Anthony, we have to say, another great man. Come here. We have a fantastic evening the other night at the White House in honor of Australia, and this is the great Prime Minister. So, Scott, I want to thank you very much. It's really nice that you're here.

 Thanks.

 Anthony is one of the most successful men in the world. Perhaps, Australia's most successful man as they say, right? Mr. Prime Minister?

 It's true.

 Thank you very much.

 He is—he's building a—he'll be investing anywhere from $5 to $10 billion in the United States, and this is one of his great plants. You might tell them about that.

 Certainly. This is a $2 billion facility. We would not have invested in this plant if it wasn't for President Trump's election. It has given us a tremendous faith in investing in America, and we've redoubled down on our investment in America. And with the construction of this plant, we will have as a result of that, sir, 9,000 American manufacturing jobs in the United States, and we're very proud of that.

 That's fantastic. So fantastic. Thank you very much. So we're going to have a little ceremony, and you're invited to join us, and it's a lot of jobs. And I really appreciate—I appreciate you a lot; you know that. You're my friend, and, Anthony, you're fantastic. Thank you very much.

 Thank you, sir. It's a great honor.

 Well done, Anthony.

Thank you, Prime Minister. I'd like to say the Prime Minister has generated 29,000 jobs a month since he was Treasurer and Prime Minister. And he's the Don Bradman of Australian job creation. Don Bradman was our Babe Ruth. [
] So——

Oh, wow.

 In cricket.

. That sounds pretty good. Okay?

 Great stuff.

 Thank you, everybody.

 Well done, Anthony. We're really proud of what you're doing.

 Come on over, watch the ceremony. How are you? You have some good pictures, huh? [
]

 So that's 100-percent recycled paper into a really, fine finished product. It's really amazing, Steve [Steve A. Holland]. They start off with all—can I use the word "garbage"?

 Yes. Yes.

Waste.

 They start off with waste, garbage, and they end up building it into a—making it into really great cardboard and paper.



How many are——

 A hundred percent of the plant.

How many people are going to work here?

 Fifteen hundred in construction. Five hundred full-time. Nine thousand over the company.

 That's the real deal, this one.



Mr. President, a lot of Australian money being spent here in the good State of Ohio. Is that good news for America?

 Oh, it's great news for America, and we also spend a lot in Australia. I think we're your largest investor, by far.

That's true.

 One-point-seven trillion dollars in American investment.

 So it goes—it's been a great partnership. And never better than it is right now with Scott. And he's done a fantastic job as Prime Minister. But the relationship has been fantastic.

But Anthony said, "If you win, I'm going to spend $10 billion in the U.S." I said, "That's okay with me."

 That's right. That's right.

 And then, we won.

 That's right.

 And here we start.

[
]

 That's really some equipment, the finest equipment in the world. And more and more people are going this way. Normally, you take down trees, and you make the paper. In this case, Anthony does 90, 95 percent out of waste, out of garbage, and they make incredible final product through a very—through really a very—a really costly, but efficient process.



[
] 
 Well, Australia has been great, but we've been great to Australia. You know, we just have a very good relationship, a really great relationship. Your Prime Minister has done a fantastic job.

Thank you.



[
]—to be generous, like Mr. Pratt, Mr. President?

 Say it?

Do you think want more businessmen like Mr. Pratt invest in America like he has?

 Yes, well, we have some good ones. But this man is number one in Australia, they say.

 And we're going to keep him. We're going to keep him.

 Everybody is fighting for him.

 Thank you very much, Mr. President.