Today, in a statement, former national security officials who served during the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, and/or Donald Trump, or as Republican Members of Congress said that they will vote for Biden for president. These Republicans cited their concern about the course of our nation under the leadership of Trump. And that through his actions and his rhetoric Trump has failed our country.



A STATEMENT BY FORMER REPUBLICAN NATIONAL SECURITY OFFICIALS

We are former national security officials who served during the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, and/or Donald Trump, or as Republican Members of Congress. We are profoundly concerned about the course of our nation under the leadership of Donald Trump. Through his actions and his rhetoric, Trump has demonstrated that he lacks the character and competence to lead this nation and has engaged in corrupt behavior that renders him unfit to serve as President.

For the following reasons, we have concluded that Donald Trump has failed our country and that Vice President Joe Biden should be elected the next President of the United States.

While we – like all Americans – had hoped that Donald Trump would govern wisely, he has disappointed millions of voters who put their faith in him and has demonstrated that he is dangerously unfit to serve another term.

In contrast, we believe Joe Biden has the character, experience, and temperament to lead this nation. We believe he will restore the dignity of the presidency, bring Americans together, reassert America's role as a global leader, and inspire our nation to live up to its ideals.

While some of us hold policy positions that differ from those of Joe Biden and his party, the time to debate those policy differences will come later. For now, it is imperative that we stop Trump's assault on our nation's values and institutions and reinstate the moral foundations of our democracy.

To that end, we are firmly convinced that it is in the best interest of our nation that Vice President Joe Biden be elected as the next President of the United States, and we will vote for him.


Adm. Steve Abbot
Mary Catherine Andrews
Richard Armitage
Christopher Barton
John Bellinger
Adm. Kenneth Bernard
Amb. Robert Blackwill
Linton Brooks
Kara Bue
Amb. Richard Burt
Victor Cha
Thomas Christensen
Eliot Cohen
Joseph Collins
Heather Conley
Chester Crocker
Patrick Cronin
Amb. Sada Cumber
Mike Donley
Raymond DuBois
Amb. Eric Edelman
Gary Edson
Richard Falkenrath
Aaron Friedberg
Janice Gardner
Amb. James Glassman
David Gordon
Colleen Graffy
Michael Green
Sen. Chuck Hagel
Gen. Michael Hayden
Amb. Carla Hills
Ash Jain
James Kelly
Rep. Jim Kolbe
David Kramer
Stephen Krasner
Ken Krieg
Amb. Frank Lavin
Rep. Jim Leach
Bruce Lemkin
Michael Leiter
Peter Lichtenbaum
James Loy
Peter Madigan
Bryan McGrath
David Merkel
John Mitnick
Holly Morrow
Amb. John Negroponte
Elizabeth Neumann
Sean O'Keefe
Daniel Price
Paul Rosenzweig
Nicholas Rostow
Kori Schake
Wayne Schroeder
Robert Shanks
Rep. Christopher Shays
John Simon
Stephen Slick
Amb. William Taft
Shirin Tahir-Kheli
Miles Taylor
William Tobey
Amb. Robert Tuttle
John Veroneau
Michael Vickers
Ken Wainstein
Sen. John Warner
Matthew Waxman
William Webster
Dov Zakheim
Philip Zelikow