





ABC'S DAVID MUIR: "We know there's another crisis attached to this pandemic and that's the economy. Thirty million Americans on unemployment right now we just learned of another million last week filing for unemployment. You lead in the polls, but in the same polls there's also a vulnerability. Over and over again, President Trump leads on the economy, and you know what he's saying? He said, President Biden, a Biden administration, will raise your taxes, will you raise taxes?" JOE BIDEN: "I will raise taxes for anybody making over $400,000. Let me tell you why I'm going to do it. It's about time they start paying a fair share of the economic responsibility we have. The very wealthy should pay fair share, corporations should pay a fair share. The fact is, there are corporations making close to a trillion dollars that pay no tax at all. I'm not punishing anybody. This is about everybody paying their fair share." MUIR: "So no new taxes $400,000 and down?" BIDEN: "No new taxes, there would be no need for [any]." (ABC's 
, 8/23/20)






JOE BIDEN: "Nobody making under $400,000 bucks would have their taxes raised, period bingo." (Joe Biden, CNBC's "Squawk Box," 5/22/20)








(Gordon B. Mermin, Surachai Khitatrakum, Chenxi Lu, Thornton Matheson and Jeffrey Rohaley, "An Analysis Of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 3/3/20)

"In 2021, on a conventional basis, taxpayers in the top 1 percent would see their after-tax incomes reduced by around 13.0 percent due to higher taxes on income above $400,000. However, taxpayers in other income quintiles would also see a reduction in their after-tax income. On a dynamic basis, the Tax Foundation's General Equilibrium Model estimates that the plan would reduce after-tax incomes by around 2.6 percent across all income groups over the long run." (Huaquin Li, Garrett Watson, and Taylor LaJoie, "Details and Analysis of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 4/29/20)

"Biden's proposals would increase taxes, on average, for households at every income level and make the federal tax code more progressive." ("An Analysis Of Joe Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 6/15/20)

("The Updated Biden Tax Plan: Budgetary, Distributional, And Economic Effects," 
, 3/10/20)

 ("Understanding Joe Biden's 2020 Tax Plan," 
, 7/30/20)





CNN'S CHRIS CUOMO: "Would you bring back the individual mandate?" JOE BIDEN: "Pardon Me." CUOMO: "Would you bring back the individual mandate?" BIDEN: "Yes, yes I'd bring back the individual mandate." (CNN's 
 7/5/19)






"As you probably know by now, Obamacare imposes a penalty on individuals who fail to have a certain level of health insurance coverage for any month of the year. This requirement is commonly called the individual mandate, and the penalty is the cost of noncompliance. ... Unless you are exempt, you will owe the penalty if you do not have minimum essential coverage for yourself and your dependents. Minimum essential coverage includes certain government sponsored programs (such as Medicare, Medicaid, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and TRICARE), eligible employer-sponsored plans, plans obtained in the individual marketplace, certain grandfathered group plans, and certain other coverage specified by the Feds." (Bill Bischoff, "Beware of the 2016 Obamacare individual mandate penalty," 
, 10/27/15)

(Andrew Minicozzi, "Modeling The Effects Of The Individual Mandate On Health Insurance Coverage," 
, 11/14/17)




("Obamacare's Poverty Tax: Americans Paying individual Mandate Tax Penalty," 
 2016)



 CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "Would you support a carbon tax? Some other candidates say they would." JOE BIDEN: "Yeah, no, I would." (Joe Biden, Climate Crisis Town Hall, 
, 9/4/19)






"For the record: Biden campaign spokesperson Matt Hill declined to comment. Public information about the nominee's positions compel some reading between the lines. The campaign's June 2019 plan includes language calling on Congress to create an 'enforcement mechanism' to cut carbon emissions, which at the time the campaign said indicated a carbon price. Its July plan, which is meant to complement the earlier draft, doesn't repeat that language but does include a clean-electricity standard, which could impose an implicit price on electricity emissions." (Amy Harder, "Joe Biden Unlikely To Push Carbon Tax As Part Of Climate Change Plan," 
, 8/20/20)





"Biden would increase income and payroll taxes on high-income individuals and increase income taxes on corporations. He would increase federal revenues by $4.0 trillion over the next decade. Under his plan, the highest-income households would see substantially larger tax increases than households in other income groups, both in dollar amounts and as share of their incomes." ("An Analysis of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 3/5/20)

"Based on the Tax Foundation General Equilibrium Model, we estimate that, on a conventional basis, Biden's plan would increase federal tax revenue by $3.8 trillion between 2021 and 2030 relative to current law." (Huaqun Li, Garrett Watson, and Taylor LaJoie, "Details And Analysis Of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 4/29/20)

"Relative to current law, PWBM projects that the updated Biden tax plan would raise between $3.1 trillion (including macroeconomic effects) and $3.7 trillion (not including macroeconomic effects) over fiscal years 2021-2030 while decreasing GDP by 0.6 percent in 2030 and 0.7 percent in 2050." ("The Updated Biden Tax Plan: Budgetary, Distributional, And Economic Effects," 
, 3/10/20)



"Joe Biden's tax plan would raise taxes by $4 trillion over the coming decade, mostly paid by wealthier taxpayers, the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated Thursday. The analysis shows that the former vice president's tax agenda is well to the left of past Democratic presidential campaigns. The same group, for instance, projected that Hillary Clinton's 2016 tax proposal would have increased taxes by $1.4 trillion over a decade." (Jay Heflin, "Biden Tax Plan Would Raise $4 Trillion, More Than Twice The Hike Proposed By Clinton In 2016," 
, 3/5/20)







"According to the Tax Foundation General Equilibrium Model, Biden's tax plan would reduce the economy's size by 1.51 percent in the long run. The plan would shrink the capital stock by 3.23 percent and reduce the overall wage rate by 0.98 percent, leading to 585,000 fewer full-time equivalent jobs." (Huaqun Li, Garrett Watson, and Taylor LaJoie, "Details And Analysis Of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 4/29/20)

"Relative to current law, PWBM projects that the updated Biden tax plan would raise between $3.1 trillion (including macroeconomic effects) and $3.7 trillion (not including macroeconomic effects) over fiscal years 2021-2030 while decreasing GDP by 0.6 percent in 2030 and 0.7 percent in 2050." ("The Updated Biden Tax Plan: Budgetary, Distributional, And Economic Effects," 
, 3/10/20)