Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning.
I'll be your print pooler for the day.
There are no changes to POTUS's public schedule so far.
The White House sends along the following:
"President Donald J. Trump will participate in a video teleconference with G20 leaders tomorrow as part of the ongoing effort to coordinate an international response to the coronavirus pandemic." Hogan Gidley.
Until 1pm.
Judd Deere sends this along:
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Abe of Japan. President Trump updated Prime Minister Abe on the All-of-America approach by the United States to combat the coronavirus pandemic. President Trump praised Japan's efforts to combat the pandemic and expressed his strong support for the decision to delay the Tokyo Summer Olympic Games. The two leaders agreed on the need for continued international cooperation to share expertise, restore the strength of the global economy, and assist vulnerable nations in combatting the pandemic.
Judd Deere sends along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone with over 140 leaders of non-profit organizations about the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The President thanked the non-profits for their tireless acts of service to Americans in need, such as delivering meals to children and hosting blood drives and donation drives for medical supplies. The President encouraged non-profits such as the Red Cross, Feeding America, Samaritan's Purse, the Salvation Army, and Meals on Wheels to continue to be generous with their time and resources. The President also encouraged non-profits who qualify to consider utilizing loans from the Small Business Administration (SBA) to continue to provide for their communities. The President highlighted that the new bill his Administration negotiated with the Senate makes more SBA money available to nonprofits and allows for generous tax treatment of charitable contributions so that Americans can continue to support our great charities. PresidentTrump reiterated that his Administration would continue to lead a whole-of-Government and all-of-America war against this invisible enemy.
Briefing room seats now being taken after temperature checkers do their thing. Usual drill. Passing wins an orange sticker today.
Still on for a 5pm start so far.
The briefing will of course be streamed here:
[
]
[
]
[
]
POTUS entered with VP at 17:53.
Already on podium:
Dr Deborah Birx
Steven Mnuchin
Dr Anthony Fauci
Event is being livestreamed on the White House live page.
POTUS left the room after speaking for 40 minutes at 18:33 leaving VP, Fauci and Birx behind for more questions.
VP, Birx and Fauci departed briefing room at 19:07.
Travel/photo lid at 19:11.