Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House. Your pooler has been tested for COVID and is still here.

This just went up.

UPDATES: The President holds a news conference at 1:00PM.

The President will travel to New York, NY this afternoon.

The President will deliver remarks to the City of New York Police Department Benevolent Association at 7PM in Bedminster, NJ. 


Lunch lid until 12:45. 


POTUS is expected to give a news conference at 1:00 pm in the briefing room.

You can watch it live here.

 


POTUS enters briefing room at 1:34. 


POTUS ends briefing. Exits with McEnany, Kudlow and Navarro. 


Having watched the travel pool walk to the motorcade, I am handing off pool responsibilities.

It is a beautiful day. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Good afternoon from the White House, where it's a sunny and humid 86 degrees. The president is motorcading to JBA today and we've loaded into the press vans. We're rolling at 2:16 pm ET.

I'll be your pooler this weekend for the president's trip to his club in Bedminster, N.J.

The president will first head to New York to visit his brother, Robert, who has been hospitalized.

Later POTUS is due to give remarks to the City of New York Police Benevolent Association at 7pm ET at his Bedminster golf club.

I'll keep you updated on any further changes to the schedule. Please let me know if you have any questions. Thanks! 


Motorcade arrived at JBA at 2:35 pm. Your pool did not spot POTUS boarding but saw Jared Kushner and Kellyanne Conway.

For those of you wondering, we're taking the Smaller plane today. With that comes the usual caveat about cell service.

Boarding at 2:40 pm. 


TAF1 was wheels down at 3:25 pm in Morristown, New Jersey.

The president spoke to press before he boarded Marine One. Said he's going to NY to go to the hospital to visit his brother before coming back for the police event. "I hope he's OK," he said of his brother. He's having a tough time."

On China: "we're doing very on our our trade deal but I feel differently about China than I've ever felt. "

Helos lifted at 3:40 pm. 


Apologies on the out of order pool reports. Thought #2 went through before we walked on AF1.

The quote on report #3 should read:

"we're doing very *well* on our our trade deal but I feel differently about China than I've ever felt. "

We landed at the Wall Street Journal Landing zone at 3:51 pm. Marine One landed at 3:56 pm. Your pooler did not see POTUS before loading into the vans. The White House has not provided us details on which hospital we are going to.

We're now rolling at 4:01 pm ET. 


We arrived at New York Presbyterian at 4:14 pm.

Here's a snap of the president walking in 


We're rolling from New York Presbyterian after holding in press vans for 47 minutes at 5:03 pm.

You'll note the President has started tweeting again.

We're headed back to the helos for Bedminster. 


Arrived back downtown at the Wall Street helipad at 5:16 pm.

Pool was held next to an ambulance and did not see POTUS exit the beast.

Marine One lifted at 5:20 pm.

We lifted at 5:24 pm and are headed for Bedminster, NJ. 


POTUS arrived at Bedminster Landing Zone at 5:43 pm ET.

We touched down in Somerset Landing Zone at 5:37 pm ET. Pool was ushered into vans and are headed to the president's Bedminster golf club.

Next up the president is due to deliver remarks to the City of New York Police Benevolent Association at 7pm ET. 
[
] 


Pool arrived at 5:58 pm and walked up to the entrance, where Elvis' "Only Fools Rush In" was playing as members of the City of New York Police Benevolent Association were mingling ahead of the event. "Cops for Trump" flanked the podium where POTUS is due to speak. Members of the club looked on from a balcony up above.

About 100 people are here for the event. When pool walked up many folks were not wearing masks but they've since put some on.

"Tiny Dancer" now playing as we await the president. 


Please note the last pool report should be numbered #9.

Judd Deere passes along the following statement:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. President Macron congratulated President Trump on the historic Abraham Accords announced yesterday between Israel and the United Arab Emirates. President Trump and President Macron discussed the urgent need for UN action to extend the arms embargo on Iran. The two leaders also expressed concern over increased tension between NATO Allies Greece and Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean. President Trump and President Macron agreed that Greece and Turkey must commit to dialogue, which is the only path to resolving their differences. Regarding Lebanon, President Trump reiterated that the United States will continue to provide much-needed aid to the Lebanese people and emphasized the need for immediate reform, transparency, and accountability on the part of the Lebanese government. 
[
] 


Note: Rudy Giuliani is here wearing sunglasses and a hat emblazoned with the NYPD logo, standing behind the president.

"We have to bring order back to our cities, back to our country."

POTUS now slamming protesters, says "one of the saddest things I've ever seen" was "when they were dumping water on the heads of two of your fellow officers."

Trump says again he's making a play for New York in November.

"If they win this election every city in America will be under siege," he said.

"The Biden Harris agenda will crush the economy," he said. 


He's again hitting Joe Biden, says he doesn't know what's going on.

"I just did an incredible deal," POTUS says of the UAE and Israel. "Nobody else did it."

Trump is now hitting Harris' record as a prosecutor.

"What's better slow Joe or sleepy Joe?" POTUS asks. "I go back and forth."

He asks the crowd and they cheer louder for Sleepy Joe.

More quotes from earlier thanks to co-pooler Sebastian Smith:

"we have to straighten out our city, our city's a mess"

(cheers)

"The world will never forget the New York police officers who ran into the smoke and flames of 9/11 -- I was there -- many never to return."

"a left wing war on cops"

(Mentions Joe Biden -- to boos.)

"And probably she's a step worse, Kamala." (Boos)

(Rudy Giuliani comes on stage at 6:55 (outlook-data-detector://1) )

"No one will be safe in Biden's America."

"They're ruining your suburbs, they want to ruin it."

"Harris could be bigger than you think in terms of the importance of vice president…"

De Blasio has "launched a real crusade against the police."

"We have to bring law and order back to our cities, back to our country."

"Democrats have an advantage, because they have certain people that automatically vote."

"We're going for New York." (Cheers)

"If they win this election, every city in America will be under siege." 


POTUS finishes remarks at 7:15 pm ET.

Pat Lynch takes the stage to thank the president. Said he thought they'd have to postpone because of the president's brother falling ill but got a call that he'd visit his brother and still attend the event.

"That's where he puts you - New York police officers and family," Lynch said. The crowd cheers.

He presents POTUS a statue of a police officer with one hand on the shoulder of a child and the other holding the flag."

Lynch says not many of these statues are given out.

Some earlier remarks from POTUS...

Says the Biden plan to abolish cash bail would release over 400,000 criminals on our streets.

Now touring his executive order on destroying monuments: "if you get caught ripping down a statue or monument you get 10 years in jail."

"We're gonna give you back your statues. We're going to give you back your status - I hate to say it but it's been taken away," Trump.

"We're gonna give New York a real shot," he said. "I think we have a real chance is winning New York."

(Thanks to Sebastian Smith for additional quotes below):

The wall:

"We can't lose this election, ok? You know we're building a big wall." (chants of build the wall)

"Yeah we're building it. "

Insulting nicknames crowd sourcing:

"What's better, 'Sleepy Joe' or 'Slow Joe'?" he asked.

Shouts for both, so he asks them to cheer for each name separately and "Sleepy Joe' wins.

"That's what I thought!" he says.

"I got all these guys telling me… 'we don't like 'sleepy' because it's rude, we're talking about the president of the United States.' I'll tell you one thing, Putin and Kim Jong Un and president Xi of China they're not sleepy…. We can't have slow, sleepy people dealing with them."

Police violence:

"you're going to have a bad apple… but it may be just a bad apple, we've seen it. But that doesn't mean we're going to close up our police departments."

More on his view that the election will be full of surprise upset wins for him:

"The people that didn't like Trump, the never Trumpers, they're starting to like Trump a lot." 


Lynch says NYC PBA is endorsing Trump.

"We need your strong voice across the country," he says.

Trump takes the podium again. He thanks the police union and asks Giuliani to say a few words. The crowd begins chanting "Rudy, Rudy."

Says he got credit for bringing down crime more than any other mayor ever anywhere: "but you did it," he said. "I owe you that."

Giuliani now talking about how Americans should stand for the anthem, not kneel.

"They want us to believe that our country was founded by an evil man... that the author of our liberty was an evil man."

"That emancipator was an evil man who won the Civil War was an evil man, because they want to convince enough people who are a hateful country. They teach that in our schools now." 


Giuliani now attacking Kamala Harris:

"I feel sorry for the country that he picked the horrible prosecutor."

"that woman is a bully."

Trump now paying respects to his brother, whom he visited earlier.

Says his brother said "don't even think about it" when he said he had to leave for the event.

Trump finishes at 7:36 pm ET and YMCA is now playing as the crowd begins thinning out. The event lasted 46 minutes. 


We have a travel/photo lid at 8:07 pm ET.

Have a good night! 