Donald J. Trump for President, Inc., along with the Republican National Committee and the New Jersey Republican Party, 
 suit Tuesday night to invalidate Governor Phil Murphy's Executive Order 177. This unconstitutional order violates New Jerseyans' 14th Amendment right to vote, as well as the Elections Clause and the Electors Clause of the U.S. Constitution. The unlawful power grab by New Jersey Democrats has demonstrably opened the state's election system up to fraud and will lead to the disenfranchisement of New Jersey voters. In defense of free and fair elections, the Trump Campaign cannot allow for Democrat party bosses to undermine the integrity of our democracy.

"In a direct usurpation of the legislature's authority, Governor Murphy issued Executive Order 177 purporting to rewrite the election code for the November 2020 election. This brazen power grab was not authorized by state law and violates both the Elections Clause and Electors Clause of the U.S. Constitution and 3 U.S.C. §1."

"Across the country, the Democrat Party is launching an alarming assault on the safety and security of our elections. In the state of New Jersey, where their universal vote-by-mail system has already resulted in fraud and disenfranchisement, Governor Murphy continues to remove safeguards against abuse. With a stroke of his pen, the governor told his people their votes may not count – they may even be stolen – and that's fine by him. Despite constant attacks on our election system, President Trump and the Trump Campaign will continue to defend our democracy."

 "Governor Murphy's executive order is not only an abuse of power, but a recipe for disaster. In New Jersey's primary election, dead people voted, a mail truck carrying ballots actually caught fire, countless voters saw their ballots rejected, and the Democrat Attorney General is prosecuting multiple people for fraud, yet Democrats still want to implement a rushed transition to an all mail election. This decision will sow chaos and risk disenfranchising New Jersey voters."





To read our full complaint, click 
.