Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning on a characteristically muggy July day in Washington.
The pool has been swabbed for COVID testing and is awaiting a scheduled 9:30 a.m. departure by the President for his trip to Florida.
If you have questions you would like me to shout, feel free to send, and we'll see how many we get in.
Kellyanne Conway gaggled in the driveway for 5 minutes after a TV hit.
Newsiest part was her being asked about talk of a Roger Stone pardon and whether that was a politically smart move.
“I'll let the president make any announcements that he has on any type of pardon or commutation of sentence for anyone,” she said.
As for the politics:
“I don't know that most voters are paying attention to that particular issue,” she said, saying it's not what moves people to the ballot box.
(I'm not transcribing the rest because it should be available by C-SPAN and we are gathering for the departure soon. But I can share a recording if anyone else is in desperate need:)
Asked why they are going to Miami today given the rising coronavirus cases and taxed resources, she said it was for two important reasons: Highlighting the results of Operation Surge in combatting drug trafficking, and standing with the Venezuelan people against Maduro. She attacked Biden for joking about Maduro's hair.
Asked if there's a strategy change in the campaign against Biden, she said any changes were Biden's, with a critique of his performance this week. She accused him of “plagiarizing” Bernie Sanders with his unity report and then “plagiarizing” Donald Trump for his economic speech yesterday.
Trump took two questions
On Biden:
“he plagiarized from me but he can never pull it off”
On Stone: Roger Stone was very unfairly treated and others while Comey is walking around.
More shortly.
POTUS walked out of the White House at 9:41 am wearing a red tie and navy suit.
He said he was going to Miami and took two questions.
Full quotes to come, but adding that on Stone he said he was still looking at a possible pardon. It was hard to hear so I will likely have to review the TV feed for exact quotes.
Marine One took off at 9:47.
He was accompanied by Kellyanne Conway, Dan Scavino and Robert O'Brien.
A small group of what appeared to be interns, guests and staff were outside watching the departure, taking pictures. Most were not wearing masks, though the pool was.
National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien was spotted briefly chatting with some in the group watching.
Handing over to out of town pool.
Noting that Trump was not wearing a mask as he walked to the helicopter, and that he stopped at the pool camera specifically to answer questions.
Basically full comments, as always check against transcript:
Said he's going to Miami and Florida today with a lot of “very good stops”
On the tropical storm:
“Tropical Storm Fay is probably going to be hitting a place called New Jersey, a good place, pretty soon.”
“We are fully prepared … in case it's bad, shouldn't be too bad, but you never know, you never know. But at this moment it's looking like it's going to be hitting New Jersey fairly soon and we are fully prepared.”
On Biden's economic speech:
“He plagiarized from me but he can never pull it off. He likes plagiarizing. It's a plan that is very radical left but he says the right things because he's copying what I've done. But the difference is he can't do it, and he knows he's not doing that.”
“He can't do the same because he's raising taxes way too much, he's raising everybody's taxes. He's also putting tremendous amounts of regulations back on, and those two things are two primary reasons that I created the greatest economy we've ever had and now we're creating it again”
On Roger Stone pardon talk:
“I'll be looking at it. I think Roger Stone was very unfairly treated, as were many people, and in the meantime Comey and all these guys are walking around, including Biden and Obama, because we caught them spying on my campaign. Who would have believed that one?”
Thanks to TV for the feed.
>From Judd Deere:
“As the President announced today, he is working on an executive order to establish a merit-based immigration system to further protect U.S. workers. Furthermore, the President has long said he is willing to work with Congress on a negotiated legislative solution to DACA, one that could include citizenship, along with strong border security and permanent merit-based reforms. This does not include amnesty. Unfortunately, Democrats have continually refused these offers as they are opposed to anything other than totally open borders.”
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 9:28 p.m.
About a minute later, Trump exited, saluted the Marine and waved at the pool as he walked toward the residence.
He did not respond to a shouted question (repeated a few times) about whether he spoke to Roger Stone tonight.
The President walked into the White House residence at 9:30 p.m.
Travel/photo lid is called.
Good night all. Have a nice weekend.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews on a cloudy Friday.
Marine One landed at 9:56 am.
POTUS, wearing his trademark red tie, waved at the pool but did not stop to answer questions.
He climbed up Air Force One stairs and waved at the top.
He was followed by Mark Meadows, Robert O'Brien and Kellyanne Conway.
Taking off soon.
Next stop: Miami, FL.
Air Force One landed in Miami International Airport at 12:01pm.
POTUS came to the press cabin soon after takeoff for a 25-minute discussion off the record.
At one point, the president talked about China and, at the pool's request, he agreed for his comments to be on the record.
Quotes below:
Q: Any possibility for a phase 2 trade deal, is that on the table?
“I don't think about it now”.
“Relationship with China has been severely damaged. They could have stopped the plague, they could have stopped it, they didn't stop it. They stopped it from going into the remaining portions of China from Wuhan province. They could have stopped the plague, they didn't.
The relationship with China has been severely damaged.
Q: So no phase 2?
A : “Honestly, I have many other things in mind”.
Just before deplaning, PressSec came at the back of the plane to tell the pool that because of “big storm”, POTUS rally in NH was delayed by “a week or two”.
At 12:14pm, POTUS walked down Air Force One stairs.
All the officials waiting for him at the bottom of the stairs were wearing a mask.
He briefly exchanged a few words with them without shaking hands.
Per WH, he was welcomed by
State Senator Bill Galvano
State Senator from Florida's 21^st State Senate District
Mayor Carlos Giménez
Mayor, Miami-Dade County, FL
Esteban Bovo
Commissioner, District 13, Miami-Dade County, FL (x-apple-data-detectors://1)
Jose “Pepe” Diaz
Commissioner, District 12, Miami-Dade County, FL (x-apple-data-detectors://2)
Juan Carlos Bermudez
Mayor, Doral, FL
After a 10-minute drive, the motorcade arrived at U.S. Southern Command where POTUS will receive a briefing on SOUTHCOM Enhanced Counternarcotics Operations.
POTUS started speaking at 12:35pm.
Live remarks here:
Per WH
Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit the U.S. Southern Command (SOUTHCOM) in Doral, Florida for a briefing on increased efforts to stop the flow of deadly drugs coming into the country.
President Trump has taken unprecedented steps to combat the drug crisis in America and he will continue to take bold action to stop the flow of drugs into our communities, and ultimately save American lives. This trip builds on his Administration's relentless, whole-of-government approach to curb the trafficking of drugs into our country.
President Donald J. Trump
Robert O'Brien, 
Kellyanne Conway,
Director Jim Carroll, 
Secretary Mark Esper,
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Amanda Liskamm, 
ADM Craig Faller,
ADM Karl Schultz,
RADM Doug Fears,
MCPO Henry Audette, 
At 1:27pm, POTUS walked to the podium in front of about 40 people, mostly military personnel, who were waiting for him, standing and social distancing, all wearing masks.
Various signs asking to practice social distancing could be seen in the room.
The speech is live on the WH website.
After a quick drive, the motorcade arrived at Iglesia Doral Jesus Worship Center, in Doral, a large yellow building where POTUS is to participate in a roundtable on “Supporting the People of Venezuela”.
The president entered the room at 1:55pm and started speaking about a wide range of subjects before turning to the roundtable participants.Highlights below:
Election
“Biden is a puppet of Bernie Sanders, AOC and the radical left”
“They will not win, they will not win at all”.
“Nobody will be safe in a Biden America but Biden doesn't know what a Biden America is”.
“In the real polls, we are doing very well”.
“There is a spirit that nobody has ever seen”
Coronavirus
“We are still fighting it and we are going to do very well”
Venezuela/Cuba“We imposed historic sanctions on the Maduro regime”.
“I ended the Obama/Biden sellout to the Castro regime in Cuba”.
“What they did for Cuba is ridiculous.”
Pool has asked for the list of participants.
Per WH
Congressman Diaz Balart
Legal Full Name: Rosa Maria Paya Acevedo
Country of Birth: Cuba.
Legal Full Name: Lourdes Ubieta
Country of Birth: Venezuela
Legal Full Name: Orlando Gutiérrez Boronat
Country of Birth: Cuba.
Legal Full Name: Mario Bramnick
Country of Birth: Cuba
Legal Full Name: Ernesto Ackerman
Country of Birth: Venezuela
Legal Full Name: Maximo Alvarez
Country of Birth: Cuba
Legal Full Name: Lorenzo Di Stefano
Country of Birth: Venezuela
Legal Full Name: Kevin Marino Cabrera
Country of Birth: USA
After a short drive from Iglesia Doral Jesus Worship Center, the motorcade made an unscheduled stop at Trump National Doral.
Pool holding in vans for now.
Wheels up soon.
Next stop: Fort Lauderdale
After a 10-minute stop, the motorcade left the Trump National Doral.
The pool stayed in the vans and did not see POTUS.
No explanation from the WH at this stage.
Motorcade rolling.
The motorcade arrived at Miami International Airport at 3:27pm.
POTUS boarded Air Force One at 3:32pm.
Wheels up shortly.
Next stop: Fort Lauderdale
After an 15-minute bumpy flight, Air Force One landed, under the rain, at Fort Lauderdale - Hollywood International Airport at 3:54pm.
At 4:06pm, President Trump walked down Air Force One stairs holding an umbrella and swiftly boarded the Beast.
Greeters per WH.
Commissioner Heather Moraitis
Commissioner, District 1, City of Fort Lauderdale, FL
George Moraitis
Spouse of Commissioner Heather Moraitis
Alexis Moraitis
Child of Heather and George Moraitis
Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis
Chief Financial Officer of the State of Florida
Motorcade rolling under heavy rain.
Next stop: Hillsboro Beach where POTUS will participate in a fundraiser.
At 4:45pm, the motorcade stopped in front of a large mansion in Hillsboro Beach.
Pool did not see POTUS.
There were Trump supporters along the way waving flags and Trump 2020 signs. Also a few protesters, some of them carrying “Biden for president” signs.
Pool holding in vans for now.
According to a Republican official, $10M were raised for Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee benefiting the Trump campaign, RNC and state parties.
Motorcade left Hillsboro Beach at 6:33pm.
Pool did not see POTUS.
The motorcade arrived at Fort Lauderdale airport at 7:06 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS boarding Air Force One.
Wheels up soon.
Air Force One landed at Andrews Air Force Base at 9:01 pm after an uneventful flight.
POTUS walked down Air Force One stairs at 9:12pm, waved at the pool and headed to Marine One.
Marine One was wheels up at 9:18pm.
Thanks to co-pooler Emily Goodin from the Daily Mail.
Have a good weekend everyone.