Police officers are under attack around the country, and 
.
Over the weekend, two police officers were shot and killed doing their jobs in McAllen, Texas. Officers Edelmiro Garza Jr., 45, and Ismael Chavez, 39, "did not draw their weapons, did not fire, never stood a chance – never had a chance," said Police Chief Victor Rodriguez. When Officer Chavez's daughter tweeted a heartbreaking farewell to her father, 
 and called the phrase "Blue Lives Matter" racist.
Meanwhile, a viral video emerged of a New York City police officer being attacked and put in a headlock 
.
 But he is attacking police officers as 
 and 
 and "redirect" it to other things, 
.
It's part of a pattern for Biden. When his daughter was 
 and making "intimidating statements," 
. And he's remained 
 as violent crime claims more Black lives in Democrat-run cities like Chicago and Atlanta, just as he's 
 as his supporters attack statues of Abraham Lincoln, George Washington, and other Founding Fathers.
 by 
 and reallocating money to other services. "
 if they take 50% of the cops off the streets," said Seattle Police Chief Carmen Best this morning. "They don't have a plan that I've heard to do anything to maintain public safety in the meantime. I find this decision … to be 
." If Biden opposes the Seattle City Council's move, he should say so.
As the left-wing media runs cover for Democrats seeking to "Defund the Police," reporters have argued that some activists don't want to get rid of police entirely, but merely 
 NPR's chief Democrat activist Yamiche Alcindor 
 the "NEEDED CONTEXT" that "defunding the police" in "many cases" "means 
 from police departments to other parts of society that help people like housing."
 when he responded, "Yes, absolutely!" 
Today, President Trump will host a roundtable with people positively impacted by law enforcement. They know that the vast majority of police officers are good people who put their lives on the line every time they put on the uniform. 
 the Philadelphia Fraternal Order of Police Lodge #5 last week, "I want you to hear this directly from me... 