Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
The White House called a lunch lid at 12:01 until 1 p.m., except for 12:30 pre-set.
Kayleigh McEnany was on Fox News this morning where she discussed opening schools, Robert Mueller and Goya.
Larry Kudlow gaggled after Fox News and Fox Business News appearances late in the morning. He talked about a "sea change" in how people perceive China because of COVID 19 and dismay over Hong Kong. Kudlow also said administration is open to suggestions about reopening schools and funding such. Your pooler missed most of the gaggle so thanks to Bloomberg's Mario Parker.
Otherwise today POTUS has lunch with the VP at 12:30, 1:00 p.m. briefing and 2:00 meeting with law enforcement stakeholders in the East Room.
Your pooler had a COVID test this morning and I am still here.
Two minute warning for briefing, which you can watch on c-Span or 
.
Apparently this report did not go through.
The briefing is over - headed to the East Room for roundtable with stakeholders positively impacted by law enforcement
AG Barr, Ja'ron Smith, and Brooke Rollins are In the East Room for the law enforcement round table.
You can watch it live on WH page.
I will send out attendees when I get them.
From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a roundtable discussion with several Americans whose lives were helped, and in some cases saved, by law enforcement. He will also welcome individuals making selfless contributions to support police officers in their communities. Their accounts demonstrate the courageous, live-saving actions law enforcement officers take every day, and underscore the dangerous effect that defunding the police would have on the lives of everyday Americans.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
William Barr, 
Brooke Rollins,
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Tim Pataki,
William Crozer,
Susan Young, whose four children were saved from an MS-13 human trafficking ring after trained law enforcement officers intervened.
Berkeley County Deputy William Kimbro performed life-saving CPR on Ryleigh Dancy, in attendance with her parents Javoris Dancy and Kamira Boyd, when she was only 12-days-old. Deputy Kimbro is now Ryleigh's godfather.
Jakebia Andrews, whose son David Northcutt, was saved from an attempted kidnapping at a Holiday Inn hotel byPalm Beach County Deputy Cory Reece, who was off-duty at the time.
Sara Bohon, whose son Spencer Bohon, was found by a police K-9 after he climbed out of his bedroom window and wandered into the woods.
Rhonda Norris was helped by an off-duty Delaware State Trooper after she was in a car wreck. The officer kept Rhonda conscious, gathered her belongings from the vehicle, and followed the ambulance to the hospital to notify her family.
Debby Winser was protected by law enforcement officers when her phone and purse were stolen.
Kenneth Bearden, who was revived by law enforcement more than ten times from overdoses, is now 6-years-sober and dedicates his time to helping others in his community.
Pastor Perry Cleek, of Lighthouse Missionary Baptist Church in Tennessee, donated $1,000 to every member of the town's police department.
Vernon Jones, State Representative from Georgia's 91st District.
POTUS and VP enter the East Room
Trump says police treated “very unfairly” and police under siege. Thanks Pence and Barr
He looked for an officer at the start. Rollins explained he took a crying baby out of the room. Officer saved child's life
“It”s all far left cities”
“The radical politicians are waging war on innocent Americans”
Please check transcripts
Trump says Chicago is “worse than Afghanistan”
Offered to help Chicago.
Pence
“We're going to defend the police.”
“Most of the men and women who put on a uniform are the best people”
Barr
Talks about the problems US faced
“Who's expected to stand their ground? The police are.”
“We have the most professional police in the world”
He know no one who would support what happened in Minneapolis
Check transcript and watch on whitehouse.gov
On July 20, Officer Kimbro saw Kamira Boyd speeding. Her daughter could not breathe.
Video of the moment Kimbro saved the body went viral
Rollins: “That failure is a choice” on blue cities experiencing violence
Kenneth Bearden
He is in recovery
>From age 11 to 34 he overdosed more than 30 times, he said
“I'm living my purpose and my passion”
Ja'Ron Smith said Trump has been focused on public safety “in a unique way”
Bill Barr could be seen perusing fact sheet on the attendees.
Trump ended saying, “The people of this country appreciate the police”
Taking questions
Is Trump monitoring Federal execution
Barr is
Would Trump pardon death row inmate before execution?
Those cases are hard
“We're gonna see what happens”
‘I'm getting rave reviews” on Stone pardon.
“We're many points up in Texas”
He doesn't buy polls on that
“They said that about Utah. They said that about Georgia”
“If Biden got in, this economy would be destroyed”
Ends at 3:08
As always, Check transcript
[
]