  As with 
 "Campaign Documents" archived by the APP, the content of this document was prepared by the presidential campaign. This is 
the analysis or work product of the American Presidency Project.  We do not vouch for the accuracy of ANY campaign document published by any presidential campaign. They are provided as part of the historical record.
"Joe Biden's record and proposals prove that he indiscriminately spreads economic misery for all Americans, so he has addressed inequality that way. And the basic fact remains that no one should listen to a lecture on racial justice from Joe Biden. He palled around with notorious, racist, segregationist senators, bragged about receiving an award from George Wallace, eulogized the exalted cyclops of the KKK, opposed the desegregation of schools through busing, and said he didn't want his kids to grow up in a 'racial jungle.' On top of that, he has the nerve to demand obedience from Black voters, arrogantly declaring that "You ain't Black!" if you don't vote for him. It's time for Joe Biden to exit the stage and his brand of condescending, 'acceptable white liberal racism' can go with him. President Trump has a true record of accomplishment for Black Americans, including attaining the lowest unemployment rate ever, providing record funding for HBCUs, supporting school choice, and achieving real criminal justice reform. For Black voters, President Trump is the one with results and Joe Biden is the one with the racially divisive record."
- Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 senior advisor
"When Joe Biden was a freshman senator in the mid-1970s, his home state of Delaware, like other hotspots across the country, was engulfed in a bitter battle over school busing, debating whether children should be sent to schools in different neighborhoods to promote racial diversity. Biden took a lead role in the fight, speaking out repeatedly and forcefully against sending white children to majority-black schools and black children to majority-white schools. He played down the persistence of overt racism and suggested that the government should have a limited role in integration. 'I do not buy the concept, popular in the '60s, which said, 'We have suppressed the black man for 300 years and the white man is now far ahead in the race for everything our society offers. In order to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even hold the white man back, to even the race,' Biden told a Delaware-based weekly newspaper in 1975. 'I don't buy that.'" (Matt Viser, "Biden's Tough Talk On 1970s School Desegregation Plan Could Get New Scrutiny In Today's Democratic Party," 
, 3/7/19)
"But I do not buy the concept, popular in the 60's, which said: 'we have suppressed the black man for 300 years, and the white man is now far ahead in the 'race' for everything our society offers. In order to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even hold the white man back to even the 'race.' I don't buy that. I don't feel responsible for the sins of my father and grandfather. I feel responsible for what the situation is today, for the sins of my own generation. And I'll be damned if I feel responsible to pay for what happened 300 years ago." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, 210/2/1975, p. S31343)
 "'In our youth, we changed America,' Biden said, reading from a script crafted for him by his strategist Pat Caddell. 'When we marched, we did not march for a 14-point program and a white paper; we marched to change attitudes, whether it was to civil rights, or women's rights, or the environment, or our culture, or the ending of the war in Vietnam. We profoundly altered the face of this nation.' The goal of his candidacy, he said, was to inspire collective action. 'Not the election of me; the election of we.'" (Robert Mackey, "Ahead Of South Carolina Vote, Joe Biden Faces Questions Over Claims Of Civil Rights Activism," 
, 2/14/20)
 "Biden repeatedly claimed that he organized a boycott of a segregated restaurant and participated in sit-ins along U.S. Route 40 in 1961, a series of protests at segregated restaurants along the major highway in Delaware and Maryland. He also claimed he marched in civil rights protests, occupied a segregated movie theater, and led a high school boycott of a whites-only grill in Wilmington, Del." (Alan Goodman, "'I Was One Of Those Guys': Joe Biden's False Claims He Took Part In Civil Rights Marches, Boycotts, And Sit-Ins," 
, 7/1/19)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "During the 60's, I was in fact very concerned about the civil rights movement. I was not an activist, I worked at an all-black swimming pool in the east side of Wilmington, Delaware. I was involved. I was involved in what they were thinking, what they were feeling. I was involved, but I was not out marching. I was not down in Selma. I was not anywhere else. I was a suburbanite kid who got a dose of exposure to what was happening to black Americans in my own city." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 9/17/87)
JOE BIDEN: "If I can make an analogy. When I started off as a kid, a young man in high school with uh, dealing with the issue. I got involved, I got involved in the civil rights movement. Desegregating restaurants, that kind of thing. The American public, that didn't live in areas where there were black populations didn't really believe how bad things really were." (Joe Biden, 
, Wilmington, DE, 6/10/20)
 JOE BIDEN: "I ran for the United States Senate as a 29-year-old kid for two reasons. I came out of the civil rights movement. I was just a kid in a segregated state that thought it was wrong and I got engaged in high school and there wasn't anything heroic about it. Sit-ins and desegregated restaurants." (Joe Biden, 
, Washington, D.C., 3/1/17)
 JOE BIDEN: "This day, 30 years ago, Nelson Mandela walked out of prison and entered into discussions about apartheid. I had the great honor of meeting him. I had the great honor of being arrested with our U.N. ambassador on the streets of Soweto trying to get to see him on Robbens Island." (Joe Biden, 
, Columbia, SC, 2/11/20)
"Biden has never been shy about tooting his own horn. So it's pretty surprising that on the eve of a primary critical to his election hopes, he suddenly recalls being arrested in South Africa — and being thanked by Mandela for being arrested. There is no evidence for either claim; neither appears remotely credible. Biden earns Four Pinocchios." (Glenn Kessler, "Biden's Ridiculous Claim He Was Arrested Trying To See Mandela," 
2/25/20)
 CNN'S JOHN BERMAN: "I do want to ask you about one thing that you've said repeatedly on the trail. I think it's three times now. You said that during your visit to South Africa, to visit Nelson Mandela, which I know was a very memorable visit for you, that you were arrested when you were there. Your campaign has come out since said, no, no, no, you were separated from other people at the airport, but you did say arrest three times." JOE BIDEN: "Yes." BERMAN: "Why?" BIDEN: "Well, what I meant to say was, I got off that -- look, I strongly, strongly, strongly opposed apartheid. I was one of the leaders. And if you doubt it, go on JoeBiden.com and look at the exchange between George Schultz and me in the Foreign Relations Committee. And here's the deal, I was with a black delegation, the CBC, the Congressional Black Caucus. They had me get off a plane. The Afrikaners got on in their shot pants and their guns, let me off for -- led me off first and moved me in a direction totally different. I turned around and everybody -- the entire black delegation was going another way. I said, I'm not going to go in that door that says white only. I'm going with them. They said, you're not. You can't move. You can't go with them. And they -- and they kept me there until finally I decided they were clear I wasn't going to move. And so what they finally did, they said, OK, they'll not going to make the congressional delegation go through the black door. They're not going to make me go through the white door. They went -- took us out -- if my memory serves me, through a baggage claim area up to a restaurant and they cleared out a restaurant. I felt strongly about apartheid. One of the reasons we were there. And after -- long after this, when Nelson Mandela was freed and came to the United States, he came in my office. He was one of the most incredible men I ever met. He sat down in my office and thanked me -- thanked me for trying to -- all the work I did on apartheid. And so that's -- that's the context of it. When I said arrested, I mean I was not able to -- I was not able to move. Cops, Afrikaners, would not let me go with them. Made me stay where I was. I guess I wasn't arrested, I was stopped. I was not able to move where I wanted to go." (CNN's 
, 2/28/20)
JOE BIDEN: "I have a record that is second to none. The NAACP's endorsed me every time I've run. I mean, c'mon, take a look at my record." (Joe Biden, Remarks On The Breakfast Club, 5/22/20)
 "Yesterday, former Vice President Joe Biden made a comment about the NAACP's endorsement. We want to clarify that the NAACP is a non-partisan organization and does not endorse candidates for political office at any level." (Press Release, "NAACP Statement On Endorsement Comment By Former Vice President Joe Biden," 
, 5/22/20)
"For two hours, Biden paced the auditorium stage and absorbed the ire of the 250-member audience. Unable to offer them any assurance on the court ruling, he made a promise to oppose busing when he returned to Washington for the next legislative session. And he did." (Brett Gadsen, "Here's How Deep Biden's Busing Problem Runs," 
, 5/5/19)
"Biden spent the next four years pushing legislation to thwart the implementation of busing schemes like the one demanded by the courts in Wilmington around the country." (Brett Gadsen, "Here's How Deep Biden's Busing Problem Problem Runs," 
, 5/5/19)
Biden took a lead role in the fight, speaking out repeatedly and forcefully against sending white children to majority-black schools and black children to majority-white schools. He played down the persistence of overt racism and suggested that the government should have a limited role in integration." (Matt Viser, "Biden's Tough Talk On 1970s School Desegregation Plan Could Get New Scrutiny In Today's Democratic Party," 
, 3/7/19)
 "'The new integration plans being offered are really just quota systems to assure a certain number of blacks, Chicanos, or whatever in each school. That, to me, is the most racist concept you can come up with,' Biden said. 'What it says is, 'In order for your child with curly black hair, brown eyes, and dark skin to be able to learn anything, he needs to sit next to my blond-haired, blue-eyed son.' That's racist! Who the hell do we think we are, that the only way a black man or woman can learn is if they rub shoulders with my white child?'" (Matt Viser, "Biden's Tough Talk On 1970s School Desegregation Plan Could Get New Scrutiny In Today's Democratic Party," 
, 3/7/19)
 "'One of the reasons I asked to join the Judiciary Committee, was so that I could work more closely with the attorney general and solicitor general and thereby put a stop to busing,' Biden said, according to a Feb. 18, 1977, News Journal article." (Amanda Terkel, "Biden Opposed Historic Black DOJ Nominees In Anti-Busing Crusade," 
, 4/3/19)
Mr. Biden has said that his record on school desegregation has been misrepresented, and he maintains that he supported busing as a remedy for the intentionally discriminatory policies that kept white and black students in separate schools in the South — a position his campaign spokesman, Andrew Bates, reaffirmed on Sunday in a statement to The Times. But a review of hundreds of pages of congressional records, as well as interviews with education experts and Biden contemporaries in Wilmington and Washington, suggests that his opposition to busing was far more sweeping than he has led voters to believe." (Astead W. Herndon and Sheryl Gay Stolberg, "How Joe Biden Became the Democrats' Anti-Busing Crusader," 
, 7/15/19)
 SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): And I happen to think that the one way to ensure that you set the civil rights movement in America further back is to continue to push busing because it is a bankrupt policy." (Sen. Joe Biden, Remarks At A Press Conference, 6/28/77)
 "But 44 years ago, facing a backlash against busing from white voters, the future vice president voiced concerns not just about the policy of busing, which he had supported when first seeking election in 1972, but about the impact of desegregation on American society. He argued that segregation was good for blacks and was what they wanted. 'I think the concept of busing … that we are going to integrate people so that they all have the same access and they learn to grow up with one another and all the rest, is a rejection of the whole movement of black pride,' said Biden. Desegregation, he argued, was 'a rejection of the entire black awareness concept, where black is beautiful, black culture should be studied; and the cultural awareness of the importance of their own identity, their own individuality.'" (Alana Goodman, "Joe Biden Embraced Segregation In 1975, Claiming It Was A Matter Of 'Black Pride'" 
 1/31/19; 
, 1975)
"In 1977, two black men nominated for key Justice Department posts by President Jimmy Carter easily won approval from the Senate Judiciary Committee. After confirmation by the full Senate, Drew Days III became the nation's first black head of the department's civil rights division and Wade McCree became the second black solicitor general." (Amanda Terkel, "Biden Opposed Historic Black DOJ Nominees In Anti-Busing Crusade, "
, 4/3/19)
 "Biden's opposition to Days and McCree was part of his crusade against busing, an imperfect and controversial means of desegregating public schools by transporting children to various schools farther away than their neighborhood ones. Biden initially supported busing during his 1972 Senate campaign, but once in office, he became the chamber's leading liberal voice against it." (Amanda Terkel, "Biden Opposed Historic Black DOJ Nominees In Anti-Busing Crusade, "
, 4/3/19)
 "Joe Biden voted to allow racially segregated private schools to keep their tax exempt status in the late '70s, a stance that put him at odds with the Carter administration and drew criticism from civil rights groups at the time. Biden was among 54 senators who voted in 1979 to keep the 'Dornan rider'—a provision that barred the IRS from revoking the tax-exempt status of segregated private schools, sometimes called 'white flight academies,' that had appeared in the wake of the Supreme Court's 1954 ruling integrating public schools." (Alana Goodman, "Biden Voted To Protect Segregated Private Schools' Tax-Exempt Status," 
, 6/23/20)
"An 'element of hypocrisy' in Sen. Joseph Biden, who has been critical of the nomination of William Rehnquist as chief justice, is suggested by the disclosure that Biden once lived in a house with a racially-restrictive deed, says a Rehnquist supporter. Biden's legal residence from August 1971 to October 1974 was a house that had a deed barring ownership by blacks, said James McClellan, head of the Center for Judicial Studies in Cumberland, Va." ("Biden Deed Suggests 'Hypocrisy,' Republican Charges," 
, 8/8/86)
"The house in Faulkland, Del., was purchased in 1969 by Biden's parents, Joseph Sr. and Jean. Records provided by McClellan showed that in 1971, as the younger Biden was preparing to run for the Senate, he swapped homes with his father." ("Biden Deed Suggests 'Hypocrisy,' Republican Charges," 
, 8/8/86)
"During 1987 fundraising trips across the South for his unsuccessful 1988 presidential bid, he sought to appeal to white voters, telling audiences that he had received an award from Wallace in 1973 and that the segregationist had lauded him as 'one of the outstanding young politicians of America.'" (Alana Goodman, "Joe Biden Once Said Democrats Needed 'A Liberal George Wallace,'" 
, 2/7/19)
"Former Vice President Joe Biden, who has been emphasizing his civil rights record as he considers a 2020 White House bid, once praised notorious segregationist George Wallace and later claimed to have received an award from him. 'I think the Democratic Party could stand a liberal George Wallace — someone who's not afraid to stand up and offend people, someone who wouldn't pander but would say what the American people know in their gut is right,' Biden told the Philadelphia Enquirer on Oct. 12, 1975, referring to the racist then-Alabama governor." (Alana Goodman, "Joe Biden once said Democrats needed 'a liberal George Wallace,'" 
, 2/7/19)
GARY ORFIELD: "I did and analysis of the voting records of the members that support the antibusing measures in the Congress, and most of them are not like you. Most of them also oppose voting rights, and most of them oppose fair housing, and most of them oppose compensatory education. They do not favor anything." SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "That is exactly true. That is why I made the George Wallace analogy. In 1968, in law school, I wrote an article saying that busing is a stupid idea. And this is coming from a guy who did march, who was a civil liberties lawyer, who did all the fence work, a public defender who is on all these civil rights issues who, but for this issue, has a 'perfect record.' One of the reasons I was reluctant to say anything is that I did not want to be associated with those folks. I did not like being near them. I did not want to be with them. I did not want to be any part of it. I figured, if George Wallace was saying it then it had to be bad." ORFIELD: "You were right then Senator." BIDEN: "I am right. I was right then about him and his motivation. But sometimes even George Wallace is right about some things. One of the things that is happening in this country is that the American people have given up because we are mot very innovative." (Committee On the Judiciary, U.S. Senate, 
, 6/3/81)
"Biden, who delivered the longest eulogy at 22 minutes, recalled how Byrd as majority leader was riled by a vote Biden made against mining interests. Byrd took a roll call sheet, drew a red circle around Biden's name and vote, and screwed it into the door frame of his office — at eye-level for anyone who entered or left the office. But Biden also remembered how Byrd traveled to Wilmington in 1972 to attend the funeral of Biden's first wife and son, stood outside the crowded church in a driving rain and refused to come inside for fear of displacing someone else. 'He traveled a hard path in life, but he devoted his life to making that hard path a little easier for those who followed,' Biden said. 'This is a guy who continued to taste and smell and feel the suffering of the people of his state. He tasted it. That's why it was so deeply ingrained in him.' Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) recalled how Byrd told a Charleston newspaper reporter in 1959, when asked about his aspirations, that he hoped to become the Senate's Appropriations Committee chairman. 'Why did he dream that dream? Why didn't he aspire to the White House, or the Governor's Mansion, or any other high office?' Biden said. 'It's because Robert Byrd knew it was from that chair that he could best help his neighbors back home. He knew that was his first and most important job as their representative in the Senate. And of course — just as he'd predicted — Robert Byrd did indeed live long enough to hold the gavel he coveted.'" (J. Taylor Rushing, "Dignitaries Pack Final Farewell For Byrd," 
, 6/20/19)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I – for a lot of us he was a friend, he was a mentor and he was a guide" (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, 7/2/10)
"As a young man, Mr. Byrd was an 'exalted cyclops' of the Ku Klux Klan. Although he apologized numerous times for what he considered a youthful indiscretion, his early votes in Congress -- notably a filibuster against the 1964 Civil Rights Act -- reflected racially separatist views. As those views moderated, Mr. Byrd rose in the party hierarchy." (Joe Holley, "Sen. Robert Byrd Dead At 92; West Virginia Lawmaker Was The Longest Serving Member Of Congress In History, 
, 6/28/10)
"When Strom Thurmond died in 2003, Joe Biden remembered his Senate colleague — one of the most notorious segregationists in history — the way he wanted to be remembered. Thurmond, who lived to 100, was 'a product of his time,' Biden said in his eulogy of the South Carolina Republican who built his career on a Dixiecrat campaign for president in 1948 and on his opposition to civil rights. But Thurmond, Biden asserted, had 'moved to the good side.'" (Henry Gomez and Darren Sands, "Joe Biden Once Spoke At Strom Thurmond's Memorial Service. How Do People Feel About That Now?" 
, 2/17/19)
 "Mr. Thurmond first came to national attention in 1948 as the states' rights candidate after southerners walked out of the democratic convention to protest the party's new commitment to civil rights." (Adam Clymer, "Strom Thurmond, Foe of Integration, Dies at 100," 
, 6/27/03)
"Joe Biden wistfully recalled on Tuesday an era in which he was able to get along with segregationist senators even though they 'didn't agree on much of anything.' Dismissing criticism from his party's left-wing flank that he is too conciliatory toward political adversaries, the former vice president told a crowd of about 100 people gathered for a fundraiser at the Carlyle hotel in New York that one of his strengths was 'bringing people together.' He knew this made him 'old-fashioned' in the eyes of restive Democrats, he said. But he remained adamant that political fellowship of the sort he maintained with white supremacists in the 1970s was not just possible in today's climate — but the best answer to the forces elevating President Trump." (Isaac Stanley-Becker "'We Got Things Done': Biden Recalls 'Civility' With Segregationist Senators," 
, 6/19/19)
"He pressed his case at the fundraiser Tuesday, using the examples of Eastland and Talmadge to argue that gaping differences can be accommodated. He said he could work with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) without being 'best buddies' because he knows how to 'demonstrate respect' for Republicans. Even with Talmadge — 'one of the meanest guys I ever knew' — Biden noted, 'at least there was some civility. We got things done. We didn't agree on much of anything. We got things done.'" (Isaac Stanley-Becker "'We Got Things Done': Biden Recalls 'Civility' With Segregationist Senators," 
, 6/19/19)
 VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "It just made everything more personal and it made it harder to say, 'well, the reason that man or woman is doing that is because they're bad or because they have an evil motive, or because they're not decent, because you get to know everybody, and that's how I became friends with John Stennis. John -- always held his hand like he was holding a revolver, very honorable guy from Mississippi and one day I walked in the Senate, and the diner was crowded, and one of my senior colleagues said, 'come on, Joe, st down here in this seat,' and the seat I sat down was traditionally Stennis's seat. And I was 31 years old, and he was one of the bolds of the Senate, and I ordered my meal and it came and just when I was about to take the first bite, John Stennis walked in, I could see him out of the corner of my eye and so I immediately wiped my mouth and I put my napkin down, and I said, 'Mr. Chairman, I'm finished,' and I got up and I left. Later that afternoon about an hour and a half later I got the following letter, I still have it: 'Dear, Joe, your courtesy did not go unnoticed and it will not go unrewarded.' And he became my friend and he actually supported me when I tried to get the nomination in 1988 from Mississippi." (
, 12/13/16)
 "U.S. Sen. Joe Biden heads into his quest for votes in a 2008 presidential primary in South Carolina with a well-exercised sense of what to say and what to leave unsaid to Republicans and Democrats alike. … Biden noted Delaware was a border state and 'a slave state that fought beside the North. That's only because we couldn't figure out how to get to the south there were a couple of other states in the way.'" (Jim Davenport, "Biden Resonates With Republicans As He Sets Up S.C. Ground Game," 
, 11/28/06)
 FOX NEWS' CHRIS WALLACE: "Finally, we have about 30 seconds left, but I can't let you go without some politics. As we mentioned, you're in South Carolina right now on the campaign trail. 30 seconds or less, what kind of a chance will a northeastern liberal like Joe Biden stand in the south if you are running in Democratic primaries against southerners like Mark Warner and John Edwards?" SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "Better than anybody else. You don't know my state, my state was a slave state. My state is a border state. My state is the eighth largest black population in the country." (Fox News' "Fox News Sunday," 8/27/06)
 "Biden said people in Washington often ask how Delaware politicians appear to avoid much of the partisan strife that takes place in other states. Part of the answer, Biden said, is in the volunteer fire service and people like King. 'This state is not a homogenous state. We're a border state, a slave state that fought on the side of the North. We're a very different state between Claymont and Hartly,' Biden said." (J.L. Miller, "Hartly Firefighter, A Legend In His Time, Honored," 
[Wilmington, DC] 
, 1/8/06)
 "For instance, Biden is quick to claim similarities between southern Delaware and the South in general. He pointedly notes that Delaware is a 'border state' which means it had slaves prior to the Civil War though it did not secede from the Union. 'I don't wan't to overdraw the comparison because Delaware isn't Alabama, but its not Pennsylvania either' he says. 'Delaware is not New York or New Jersey. I don't say that with pride or anger. It's just not we're more like Virginia. You don't get elected in Delaware because you're George McGovern." (Frederick Burger, "Biden Pleased With State Trip," 
," 4/3/87)
 "In 1975, Biden joined a unanimous Senate vote to restore citizenship to Lee, 110 years after the Virginian surrendered his Army of Northern Virginia to the Union general and future President Ulysses S. Grant. There were 10 dissenters in the House of Representatives, among them Rep. John Conyers Jr., a black Democrat from Michigan, who scoffed that the resolution was 'Bicentennial fluff.' Conyers retired in 2017." (Julio Rosas, "Joe Biden Voted To Give Robert E. Lee His US Citizenship," 
, 4/29/19)
 "The former vice president, 76, was a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee that unanimously approved a bill in 1977. The measure was sent to the full Senate, where it was approved without dissent and later signed into law by President Jimmy Carter." (Alana Goodman, "Biden Voted To Restore Citizenship To Confederate President Jefferson Davis," 
, 6/12/19)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I, too, heard that speech and, for the public listening to this, the Senator made a very moving and eloquent speech, as a son of the Confederacy, acknowledging that it was time to change and yield to a position that Senator Carol Moseley-Braun raised on the Senate floor, not granting a Federal charter to an organization made up of many fine people who continue to display the Confederate flag as a symbol." (Sen. Joe Biden, Remarks At A Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing, U.S. Senate, 7/23/93)
JOE BIDEN: "But I tell you that if you have a problem figuring out whether you're for me or Trump than you ain't black." (Power 105.1FM's "
," 5/22/20)
Vice President Joe Biden on Tuesday told a diverse crowd here, including many African-Americans, that presumptive Republican nominee Mitt Romney would 'put you all back in chains' by unshackling Wall Street. Biden told more than 800 ticketed supporters that Romney wants to repeal the financial regulations enacted after the Wall Street crash of 2008. 'He's going to let the big banks once again write their own rules - unchain Wall Street!' Biden said. Then he added, 'They're going to put you all back in chains' with their economic and regulatory policies." (Rodney Hawkins, "Biden Tells African-American Audience GOP Ticket Would Put Them 'Back In Chains,'" 
 8/14/12)
 JOE BIDEN: "My wife has taught for the last — my deceased wife taught grade school. My present wife of 47 years now has taught in high school and grade school, I mean, junior high, high school, and now she's a college professor, a community college professor." Mr. Biden lost his first wife, Neilia, and their daughter in a car accident in 1972. "And the people who don't show up on the nights when there's a parent-teacher meeting are not people who in fact don't care, but folks from poor backgrounds. They don't show up because they're embarrassed. They're embarrassed the teacher's going to say — and it's hard to say, 'Well, I can't read,' or 'I don't …' I'm talking about not just people of color, but poor folks. And so there's this about being able to give people a kind of help they desperately want without being embarrassed in getting the help, without being embarrassed that they're seeking the help." (Joe Biden, "Joe Biden-New York Times Editorial Board Interview," 
, 12/16/19)
"Mr. Biden said one problem black communities face is that the 'parents can't read or write themselves.'" (Stephanie Saul, Astead Herndon, And Jonathan Martin, "Biden Needs Black Voters To Lift His Campaign. But He Has Competition.," 
, 2/13/20)
"Former Vice President Joe Biden's campaign said Friday he 'misspoke' after he came under fire for a gaffe he made during an Asian and Latino Coalition PAC event Wednesday night in Iowa, saying 'poor kids are just as bright and just as talented as white kids.' 'We have this notion that somehow if you're poor, you cannot do it, poor kids are just as bright and just as talented as white kids. Wealthy kids, black kids, Asian kids. I really mean it. But think how we think about it. We think now we're going to dumb it down. They can do anything anybody else can do give it a shot,' Biden said at the coalition event to applause." (Molly Nagle and John Verhovek, "Biden 'Misspoke' About 'Poor Kids' Being 'Just As Bright' As 'White Kids': Campaign," 
, 8/9/19)
 (Shailagh Murray, "Biden Stumbles In Interview," 
, 10/25/07)
JOE BIDEN:"But here is what we found out, as we came through bankruptcy as it applies to a lot of cities. As they came through bankruptcy, they found out as we got back in the deal that we were able to provide for a significant increase in the services and capabilities that were available there in terms of everything from street lights to buses because most don't have cars and trains etc…. What happened? We found out that when the exodus occurred, the people who – they didn't know how to turn on – the city did not know how to turn on the street lights. The water system, the sewer system is all computerized. We needed people who knew how to code and they all left and moved, black and white they moved. So what did we do, we went out and got an organization – if you're a business person and you want to get a tech person you go to this particular organization and we said 'come in and find us people who can do this job' and through a program we had through community college is a program that - look put together a program for us where we can teach people how to code. So when they went out, literally into the hood, and they found turned out 54 they happened to be all women, the vast majority were women of color. No one with more than a high school degree, ages 24-54 and – and almost a third of them only had a GED." (Joe Biden, 
, Des Moines, Iowa, 5/1/19)
"Delaware Sen. Joe Biden's trademark blunt talk set up the liveliest and one of the frankest admissions in a gathering of presidential candidates so far this campaign. In response to a question about AIDS in the black community at Thursday's Democratic presidential forum at Howard University, Biden said, 'I spent last summer going through the black sections of my town holding rallies in parks trying to get black men to understand it's not unmanly to wear a condom. Getting women to understand they can say no. Getting people in the position where testing matters. I got tested for AIDS. I know Barack [Obama] got tested for AIDS. There's no shame in being tested for AIDS.'" (Robert Yoon and Alexander Mooney, "Blunt Talk From Biden. . . And Obama," 
 6/28/07)
 "'Black sections of town'? Do people still refer to their cities and towns in this way? Even if the answer is yes, Biden lives in Wilmington, Del., where according to the 2000 Census, the black population is 56.4 percent. Black isn't just a section of Wilmington; it's getting to the point that it will be all of Wilmington. It would be like someone saying that they spent last summer going through the Mexican American sections of San Antonio." (Cary Clack, Op-Ed, "Biden's Message Tangled By Sloppiness,"
, 7/3/07)
"Biden is taking some heat for comments he made to the New York Observer, in which he said of Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., a rival for the nomination: 'I mean, you got the first mainstream African-American who is articulate and bright and clean and a nice-looking guy. I mean, that's a storybook, man.'" (Jake Tapper, "A Biden Problem: Foot In Mouth," 
, 1/31/07)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I spent last summer going through the black sections of my town holding rallies in parks trying to get black men to understand that it's not unmanly to wear a condom, getting women to understand that they can say 'no,' getting people into the position where testing matters. I got tested for AIDS. I know Barack [Obama] got tested for AIDS. There's no shame in being tested for AIDS. It is an important thing because the fact of the matter is in the community – in the communities engaged in denial – they're engaged in denial, no one wants to talk about it in the community and we do not have enough leaders in the community and outside the community demanding to face the reality, confront them. Men in the community as well as the women letting them know that there are alternatives." SENATOR BARACK OBAMA (D-IL}: "Tavis, I just got to make clear, I got tested with Michelle, when we were in Kenya in Africa. I don't want any confusion here about what's going on." BIDEN: "And I got tested to save my life because I had a 13 pints of blood transfusion." TAVIS SMILEY: "And I am sure Michelle appreciates you clarifying that." OBAMA: "In public." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
 Washington, DC, 6/28/07)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "And left wingers in my party say no that is not what we should do but politically that consensus has been arrived at. I acknowledge that was not the consensus in the 60's but it is today. This is the second thing we all have agreed upon and that is unless we do something about that cadre of young people – tens of thousands of them born out of wedlock without parents, without supervision, without any structure, without any conscience developing because they literally – because they literally have not been socialized. They literally, have not had an opportunity – we should focus on them now not out of a liberal instinct for love brother and humanity but I think that is a good instinct but for simple pragmatic reasons. If we don't, they will – or a portion of them will become the predators 15 years from now and madam president we have predators on our streets that society has in-fact in part because of its neglect created. Again, it does not mean because we created them that we somehow forgive them or do not take them out of society to protect my family and you from them. They are beyond the pale, many of those people – beyond the pale and it is a sad commentary on society. We have no choice but to take them out of society and the truth is that we do not know how to rehabilitate them at that point and that is the sad truth. You're looking at the fella who is one of the primary architects of the sentencing commission." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, 11/18/93)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "Now, the next man I'd like you to meet and y'all got to sit down for this because y'all got to stand up – we're about to have some important people come out in a minute but there is one more band member that I want you to meet. Ladies and gentlemen, our vocals tonight Michael Jackson. Michael can you please stand. Thank you, thank you very much, soon to become prince as just pointed out to me." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC,, 5/8/85)
"Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.), while praising Democratic presidential candidate Jesse L. Jackson, used the word 'boy' to refer to him and Sen. Gary Hart (D-Colo.) during an informal news conference here late Friday night. Jackson 'is one of the brightest guys around,' Biden said in remarks made after a speech. 'That boy ain't no dummy, just like Gary Hart, that boy ain't no dummy either.'" (Tom Sherwood, "Biden Refers To Jackson And Hart As 'Boy,'" 
, 5/13/84)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "Unless we do something about this, my children are going to grow up in a jungle, the jungle being a racial jungle with tensions having built so high that it is going to explode at some point. We have got to make some move on this. You say I am throwing the brick. I am not as good at analogies and homilies as all of you are, but I think pushing busing in a way in which it goes beyond the constitutional mandates is like throwing a bus through the civil rights window."(Committee On The Judiciary, U.S. Senate, 
, 7/22/77)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I am a 29-year-old oddball, the only reason I was able to raise the money was I was able to have a national constituency to run for office. Because I was 29, I'm like the token black or the token woman, I'm the token young person." (PBS' 
 2/6/74)
SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "We all came here, with the exception of a few of my brothers who were forced to come. We all came here because we didn't like it where it was, because power had corrupted and because we were going to build a system that built into that system the inability of power and too much of it to reside in any one place."(Sen. Joe Biden, 
, 1973)
"As early as 1970, when he was a member of Delaware's New Castle County Council, the 27-year-old future vice president used the type of hyperbolic language that was to become his trademark. He lambasted the 'far left' and the American Civil Liberties Union, a historic bastion of liberalism, on starkly racial grounds. 'I have some friends on the far left, and they can justify to me the murder of a white deaf mute for a nickel by five colored guys,' he said in a Nov. 11, 1970, interview with the News Journal of Delaware. 'They say the black men had been oppressed and so on. But they can't justify some Alabama farmers tar and feathering an old colored woman. I suspect the ACLU would leap to defend the five black guys. But no one would go down to help the 'rednecks.'' He added: "They are both products of an environment. The truth is somewhere between the two poles. And 'rednecks' are usually people with very real concerns, people who lack the education and skills to express themselves quietly and articulately.'" (Alana Goodman, "Biden Defended 'Rednecks' And Denounced 'Knee-Jerk Liberals' As He Built His Political Career," 
, 6/17/19)
"When Joe Biden was a freshman senator in the mid-1970s, his home state of Delaware, like other hotspots across the country, was engulfed in a bitter battle over school busing, debating whether children should be sent to schools in different neighborhoods to promote racial diversity. Biden took a lead role in the fight, speaking out repeatedly and forcefully against sending white children to majority-black schools and black children to majority-white schools. He played down the persistence of overt racism and suggested that the government should have a limited role in integration. 'I do not buy the concept, popular in the '60s, which said, 'We have suppressed the black man for 300 years and the white man is now far ahead in the race for everything our society offers. In order to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even hold the white man back, to even the race,' Biden told a Delaware-based weekly newspaper in 1975. 'I don't buy that.'" (Matt Viser, "Biden's Tough Talk On 1970s School Desegregation Plan Could Get New Scrutiny In Today's Democratic Party," 
, 3/7/19)
"But I do not buy the concept, popular in the 60's, which said: 'we have suppressed the black man for 300 years, and the white man is now far ahead in the 'race' for everything our society offers. In order to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even hold the white man back to even the 'race.' I don't buy that. I don't feel responsible for the sins of my father and grandfather. I feel responsible for what the situation is today, for the sins of my own generation. And I'll be damned if I feel responsible to pay for what happened 300 years ago." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, 210/2/1975, p. S31343)