Pool Reports by 
, 




Hello from the White House, where it is mostly sunny and in the high 80s.

I'll be your pooler today. I was tested with the rest of the restricted pool for COVID-19 at call time, and they say no news is good news.

No changes to the schedule at this point.

The president will stop at the American Red Cross National HQ in DC at 2:45 p.m. for a tour and to talk about donating plasma.

The 
 website says the roundtable portion will be live-streamed, so will be sending off-camera details from tour, highlights, etc. 


Will advise soon as details known ... family of slain solider was reported to be meeting president 


Trump seated with family of Guillen, soldier who was was found dead after disappearing from Fort Hood in Texas.
Alleged killer died of suicide.

Mother thru interpreter: Thank you for having us.
She asks for help for what happened to daughter.
Wants truth about killer and events/harassment leading up to it:
‘Why didn't people act on it?"

There is female lawyer for family and four members total on couches, chair

Trump:
Saw reports on killing
"It hit me very hard."
Says Vanessa was spectacular person.
Says DOJ involved
‘We didn't want this to be swept under the rug."

Lawyer: says there aren't enough protections for victims of harassmentSays problem is widespread; retaliation happens after reportingSays Guillen may have been bludgeoned to death, carried body out to river

Trump: ‘And nobody saw this?'

Lawyer says it sounds akin to ISIS killing
Says not enough transparency, need reform; praises Rep. Markwayne Mullin for bill, allows reporting to third party instead of chain of command
‘Vanessa could have reported' and suspect's record pulled up
"It's hard to go to the boss"

Another member, believe a sister, says Army should have shown more respect"She was afraid of retaliation"
"We need a change and we need a positive change"

Another sister to Trump: ‘I know you're going to help us" 


Event over, check rush against CSPAN clip etc:

first sister on suspect: " He was a true coward"

Trump said he will look into situation "powerfully"

Mother: my daughter's story is "a story of the whole nation"

First sister, interpreting mother: "She had a whole life ahead of her."

Sister says men harassed, too

Trump:
"Hopefully something very powerful will come out in honor of your sister and your daughter"

Having funeral soon but family says they don't have remains because of investigation

Trump: assures he will help with funeral in Houston, even "financially"

Family says Army supporting funeral

Lawyer: On Army culture, "i'm not sure why they were protecting him"Questions how suspect escaped

Discuss remains of male soldier found near base after prior disappearance

Trump says he's paid for funerals before with personal funds:
‘I have," adding: "I cant do it through government'

Very emotional, family speaking of others killed on Army bases
Sister: "Why is this happening?"

Mother: "justice for Vanessa"

No Qs

Trump says "we'll see you at 5:30," meaning presser (COVID) 


(list from WH)
Rogelio "Roger" Guillen- Father
Gloria Guillen- Mother
Mayra Guillen- Sister
Guadalupe "Lupe" Guillen- Sister
Natalie Khawam- Attorney for Guillen family
Elizabeth "Lisa" Krowne- Chief of Staff to Natalie Khawam

Fuller Trump quotes:
On Guillen investigation:
"We're going to look into it very powerfully, and we already have started, as you know, and we'll get to the bottom of it. Maybe things can come out that will help other people in a situation like Vanessa."

on legislation/reform:
"You have our support and we're working on it already, as you know. And we won't stop, and hopefully something very positive will come out in honor or your sister and your daughter."

On funeral in Houston:
"If I can help you out with the funeral, I'll help you out. 
Financially, I'll help you out."

Reporter Q on whether he offered to pay for funerals for other families:
"I have. Personally, I have to do it personally, I can't do it through government."

Reporter asked if he's actually written checks for this purpose:

"I have, I have. Because some families need help. They need help."

(Trump then notes he doesn't know if Guillens need help in this instance) 


President is scheduled to tour HQ in DC and do a roundtable on donating plasma amid COVID-19 pandemic.

Will note that 5:30 p.m. presser is official now:

 THE PRESIDENT holds a news conference

James S. Brady Briefing Room

On Camera 


>From WH, on sisters' positioning during Oval event with Guillens:

Myra was closest to the president and Lupe was on the left if looking from behind the couch 


Motorcade moved from WH at 2:49 p.m. for very short trip to Red Cross HQ. Arrived 2:52
Only a few onlookers on 17th Street NW.
Briefly spotted POTUS from distance get into limo on South Lawn.

Will note that Trump tweeted about Herman Cain and his family before departure. 


Trump is wearing mask in basement room
HHS Secretary Azar here, Surgeon General Adams and Fauci, too, with man who is hooked up to donate plasma in large basement room
Yellow plasma is coming out into medical bag next to him.
Patient named Marty said he felt bad during illness but didn't go to hospital
"Strong. You're very famous right now" Trump told him
Man jokes he will not be famous when president leaves
Patient: "It's really no pain, it's very easy to do"
Will seek full name of patient

Trump not wearing mask at roundtable upstairs: can follow on livestream
Birx is here; Collins from NIH, FDA's Hahn
Trump notes other countries doing poorly again with virus:
"They've had explosions."

"We really need donations of the plasma"
"It would help a lot of people" 


Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit the American Red Cross Headquarters to raise awareness of the importance of donating plasma. Plasma is being evaluated as a treatment for patients with serious or immediately life-threatening coronavirus infections. The willingness of recovered patients to donate makes these studies possible, and it will be critically important to increase donations if the studies show a significant benefit.

For 139 years, the American Red Cross has been supported by selfless volunteers and dedicated employees who invest their time, talent, and resources to provide much needed assistance to people around the world. President Trump joins the Nation in thanking and honoring the American Red Cross for their tireless work.



President Donald J. Trump
Ambassador Debbie Birx,


 Secretary Alex Azar, 
Vice Admiral Jerome Adams, 
Commissioner Stephen Hahn, 
Dr. Francis Collins,
Dr. Anthony Fauci,


Chris Hrouda, 
Gail McGovern, 
Kate Fry,
Paul Perreault, 
Adam Schechter, 
Marty Sarsfield, 
Jodi Sheedy,
 
In basement
Donor: Marty Sarsfield
Red Cross, President of Biomedical Services: Chris Hrouda

Hrouda reiterated call for donors, Red Cross goal of 100k donors

Roundtable:
Over a dozen physically distanced attendees, plus press, at event, in hall with high ceilings
Trump in center of long table arrangement

Again, livestream available, so just some highlights:

- McGovern of Red Cross says demand exceeds supply of plasma

- Azar: says nearly 50k received plasma so far but "we need hundreds of thousands more to please come forward," referring to donors

- Collins of NIH: Compares body to biotech factory; of survivors: "you're in the position to donate your biotechnology product"
Says credit for array of treatments isn't important, just keep moving forward

-Fauci: extolls virtue of pulling together 
"This is something I think is part of the American spirit"
Notes remdesivir and dexamethasone drugs available, too
Says vaccine trials show powerful response on par with donated plasma from survivors

- Birx reiterates importance of social distancing and mask-wearing

- LabCorp chief says they're trying to expand capacity and improve turnaround time; says it will offer free antibody tests to doctor patients, hoping to find plasma donors

- Hahn says FDA will "call balls and strikes" on whether vaccine is safe, asserting independence amid speedy effort
"We aren't cutting corners"

- Adams: evokes Rosie the Riveter and all-out effort; "We have a common enemy now"

On face shield and goggles being effective against COVID:
Trump: "I only heard of goggles for the first time about an hour ago"
Meaning in terms of COVID

Birx says they're helping teachers with face guards

Trump says he wants more rapid tests:
"That's what we're striving for"

LabCorp says hotspot avg is one day turnaround
and 2-3 days in other places

Trump says military will deploy vaccine 'In a very powerful manner"


Motorcade left Red Cross at 3:53 pm and arrived back at WH at 3:56 pm.Briefly spotted POTUS get out. 


You can watch here: 


Will only send off-camera highlights, if any. 


Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany in the seats to the side off-camera. 


The briefing lasted about a half-hour.
He spoke about coronavirus surges in other countries and in some states, his tweet about mail-in voting and delaying the election, negotiations over COVID relief, the demonstrations and federal response in Portland, Oregon, and progress on therapeutics and vaccines for the virus. 


WH called a lid at 6:16 p.m.

Have a pleasant evening. 