





DANA BASH: "Just to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?" JOE BIDEN: "No, we would -- we would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those, either -- any fossil fuel." (Joe Biden, 
, Detroit, MI, 7/31/19)






 BERNIE SANDERS: "Joe believes, to continue fracking. Correct me if I am wrong. What we need to do right now is bring the world together, tell the fossil fuel industry that we are going to move aggressively to win solar, sustainable energies..." JAKE TAPPER: "Thank you." SANDERS: "... and energy efficiency." TAPPER: "Thank you, Senator." JOE BIDEN: "No more, no new fracking. And by the way, on the Recovery Act, I was able to make sure we invested $90 billion in making sure we brought down the price of solar and wind, that is lower than the price of coal. That's why not another new coal plant will be built. I did that while you were watching, number one. Number two, we're in a situation where we in fact have the ability to lay down the tracks where no one can change the dynamic. And that's why we should be talking about things like I've been talking about for years, high speed rail, taking millions of automobiles off the road. Making sure that we move in a direction where no more, no more drilling on federal lands, making sure that we invest in changing the entire fleet of the United States military." (Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 3/15/20)






JOE BIDEN: "But kiddo, I want you to just take a look, ok. You don't have to agree, but I want you to look in my eyes, I guarantee you, I guarantee you we are going to end fossil fuel and I am not going to cooperate with them, ok." (Joe Biden, 
, New Castle, NH, 9/6/19)






JOE BIDEN: "Look, you're going to ban fracking all across America right now, right?" VOTER: "I would love to." BIDEN: "Yeah. I'd love to too. I'd love to make sure we cant' use any oil or gas, period." (Sunrise Movement, 
, 12/6/19)








 TIM ALBERTA: "Vice President Biden, I'd like to ask you. Three consecutive American presidents have enjoyed stints of explosive economic growth due to a boom in oil and natural gas production. As president, would you be willing to sacrifice some of that growth, even knowing potentially that it could displace thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of blue-collar workers in the interest of transitioning to that greener economy?" JOE BIDEN: "The answer is yes." (Joe Biden, 
 Los Angeles, CA, 12/19/19)








("Natural Gas And Oil: A Critical Contributor To American Prosperity," 
, 7/17)

("Natural Gas And Oil: A Critical Contributor To American Prosperity," 
, 7/17)





 JOE BIDEN: "Number one, no more subsidies for the fossil fuel industry, no more drilling on federal lands, no more drilling, including offshore, no ability for the oil industry to continue to drill, period, ends." (Joe Biden, 
 Washington, DC, 3/15/20)






 ("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" 
, 8/26/16)

("What If…Energy Production Was Banned On Federal Lands And Waters?" 
, 8/26/16)



"Joe Biden on Tuesday will call for setting a 100% clean-electricity standard by 2035 and investing $2 trillion over four years on clean energy, three people familiar with his plan said Monday." (Jennifer Epstein, Ari Natter, and Jennifer A Dlouhy, "Biden To Call For $2 Trillion In Spending On Clean Energy," 
 7/13/20)



. "We estimate the cost of full decarbonisation of the US power grid at US$4.5 trillion, given the current state of technology." (Dan Shreve, "Deep Decarbonisation: the Multi-Trillion-Dollar Question," 
, 6/27/19)

 "A 'Green New Deal' that includes a proposal to move 100 percent of U.S. electricity production to renewable sources would require at least $5.7 trillion of investment in renewable energy and storage." (Philip Rossetti, "What It Costs To Go 100 Percent Renewable," 
 1/25/19)




(Philip Rossetti, "What It Costs To Go 100 Percent Renewable," 
 1/25/19)



CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "So let me ask you about that, because you talk about exporting. The United States is projected to be a net energy exporter by next year, largely because of crude oil and natural gas. Should the U.S. ban fossil fuel exports, as some other candidates are calling for?" JOE BIDEN: "Well, I think -- I think we should, in fact, depending on what it is they're exporting for what they're replacing. Everything is incremental. Everything is incremental." (Joe Biden, 
. New York City, NY, 9/4/19)






 "The U.S. solidified its status as an energy producer by posting the first full month as a net exporter of crude and petroleum products since government records began in 1949. The nation exported 89,000 barrels a day more than it imported in September, according to data from the Energy Information Administration Friday. While the U.S. has previously reported net exports on a weekly basis, today's figures mark a key milestone that few would have predicted just a decade ago, before the onset of the shale boom. (Stephen Cunningham, "U.S. Posts First Month In 70 Years As A Net Petroleum Exporter," 
, 11/29/19)