On the heels of this morning's endorsement from the 
, 48 sheriffs throughout the Sunshine State announced their support for President Trump's re-election at an event with President Donald J. Trump in Tampa, Florida.

"Now like never before, America needs a President who stands strong with our law enforcement officers and who will be unwavering in protecting what I call our three C's: our citizens, our cops, and our Constitution. Donald Trump is that President, and each of us on this stage knows just how important it is to have his continued support from the White House and making sure that America's law enforcement officers have the resources, tools, and backing that it takes to get the job done," 
"Now more than ever, we need a president that ignores the insanity of those who suggest defunding the police and a president who stands shoulder to shoulder with the brave men and women of law enforcement who put their lives on the line every day to protect our citizens, our homes, our businesses, and our way of life. Donald J. Trump is that president."






The following sheriffs endorsed President Trump:
Scotty Rhoden, Baker County
Tommy Ford, Bay County
George Paul "Gordon" Smith, Bradford County
Wayne Ivey, Brevard County
William G. "Bill" Prummell Jr., Charlotte County
Mike Prendergast, Citrus County
Darryl Daniels, Clay County
James F. Potter, De Soto County
Mike Williams, Duval County
Thelbert "David" Morgan, Escambie County
Rick Staly, Flagler County
A.J. Smith, Franklin County
Bobby Schultz, Gilchrist County
David Hardin, Glades County
Mike Harrison, Gulf County
Arnold Lanier, Hardee County
Stephen H. "Steve" Whidden, Hendry County
Al Nienhuis, Hernando County
Paul Blackman, Highlands County
John Tate, Holmes County
Deryl B. Loar, Indian River County
Louis S. "Lou" Roberts III, Jackson County
Alfred Kenneth "Mac" McNeill Jr., Jefferson County
Brian N. Lamb, Lafayette County
Peyton C. Grinnell, Lake County
Carmine Marceno, Lee County
Robert "Bobby" McCallum, Levy County
Eddie Joe White, Liberty County
Benjamin J. Stewart, Madison County
Charles R. Wells, Manatee County
Billy Woods, Marion County
William Snyder, Martin County
Rick Ramsay, Monroe County
Bill Leeper, Nassau County
Larry R. Ashley, Okaloosa County
Noel E. Stephen, Okeechobee County
Chris Nocco, Pasco County
Bob Gualtieri, Pinellas County
Homer "Gator" DeLoach III, Putnam County
Robert Johnson, Santa Rosa County
Tom Knight, Sarasota County
David B. Shoar, St. Johns County
William O. "Bill" Farmer Jr., Sumter County
Wayne Padgett, Taylor County
Brad Whitehead, Union County
Mike Chitwood, Volusia County
Michael A. Adkinson, Jr., Walton County
Kevin Crews, Washington County