Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning on a sodden Tuesday

Your pooler was called to the White House at 9a and tested for Covid-19.

POTUS schedule so far shows a 10:30a signing ceremony for HR 1957, The Great American Outdoors Act. Preset happening now. He has lunch with the Secretary of State at 12:45p and ann intelligence briefing at 2p, both of which are closed to press.

A briefing with the press secretary is scheduled for noon. 


POTUS has entered the East Room (to a sustained applause) for the HR 1957 signing ceremony, which will be streamed live here: 


Ivanka Trump is here, as is VPOTUS and interior secretary David Bernhardt. Your pooler can also see Sen. Cory Gardner and Sen. Rob Portman. There is a portrait of Teddy Roosevelt on a horse set up onstage, to one side of the desk. 


The White House sends this along on today's bill signing ceremony, which is being live-streamed by the White House.

Today, President Donald J. Trump will give remarks and sign H.R. 1957 – The Great American Outdoors Act, one of the greatest conservation acts in decades, into law.

The Great American Outdoors Act requires full, mandatory funding of the Land and Water Conservation Fund and addresses the maintenance backlog facing America's national parks and public lands.



President Donald J. Trump
The Vice President
 Mark Meadows, 
Ivanka Trump,
Jared Kushner,
Marc Short, 
Amy Swonger,
Mary Neumayr,


Secretary David Bernhardt,
Secretary Sonny Perdue, 
Aurelia Skipwith, 
William Perry Pendley, 
Chris French,
Doug Crandall, 
Tara Sweeney,
Cole Rojewski,


Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN)
Senator Steve Daines (R-MT)
Senator Cory Gardner (R-CO)
Senator John Hoeven (R-ND)
Senator Martha McSally (R-AZ)
Senator Rob Portman (R-OH)
Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (R-LA)
Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY)
Rep. Don Young (R-AK)

K.C. Walsh,
Tim Cors ,
Lesley Kane Szynal, 
Alan Front ,
Jay Leutze,
Whit Fosburgh,
Jeff Crane,
John Nau,
Johnny Morris, 
Rob Keck, 
Joe Bartozzi,
Laird Hamberlain, 
 


Signing ceremony is over. Sen. Alexander, wearing a red flannel mask, handed POTUS a tall walking stick, which POTUS himself carried out of the East Room. He did not stop to answer a shouted question about evictions. 


The press secretary's briefing has been moved back half an hour to 12:30.

Also, pool report no. 3 included a list of the guests at the signing ceremony that was provided by the White House. That list contained a mistake -- Rep. Jeff Fortenberry represents Nebraska's First District, not Louisiana. 


[
] 


[
] 


per Kayleigh McEnany's ongoing briefing 


[
] 


Pool has been told to gather at briefing room doors. 


Pool has been escorted to the Oval Office for the swearing in of General Charles Q Brown, Jr. as the new chief of staff of the US Air Force.

This was on VPOTUS schedule today but was apparently transferred to the West Wing.

"I said this was the big leagues and we have to have you and your family celebrate" POTUS says. 


*Apologies if this is going out twice, but I got a bounce-back when I first tried to send this.*

Standing in a very crowded Oval Office, POTUS joked to General Brown "this is your last chance" to get out, to laughter. He added, "You're a great gentleman, a great man... this is an amazing achievement."

After VPOTUS administered the oath and the defense secretary Mark Esper said a few words, Trump added:

"Greatest country in the world, you have all those brand new F-35s."

POTUS did not take any questions; pool was quickly ushered out of the Oval. 


...per announcement over the loudspeaker. 


[
] 


It's being live-streamed here and elsewhere: 
 