Joe Biden is going to build our country back better after this economic crisis and that includes ensuring we get closer to full inclusion of and equality for women. Women — particularly women of color — have 
 had a fair shot to get ahead in this country. Today, too many women are struggling to make ends meet and support their families, and are worried about the economic future for their children. This was true before the COVID-19 crisis, but the current global health crisis has exacerbated these realities for women.

For Biden, it's a simple proposition: his daughter is entitled to the same rights and opportunities as his sons. He believes every issue is a women's issue — health care, the economy, education, national security — but women are also uniquely and disproportionately impacted by many policies. As President, Biden will pursue an aggressive and comprehensive plan to further women's economic and physical security and ensure that women can fully exercise their civil rights. Biden will:

Biden has committed to selecting a woman to be his Vice President and an African American woman to be his first nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court, but his commitment to ensuring women help lead his Administration does not end there. As President, Biden will nominate and appoint people who look like the country they serve. He will reissue and mandate strict compliance with the Obama-Biden 
 to promote diversity and inclusion in the federal workforce, 
. He will modify it to mandate that Cabinet agencies and other executive branch agencies work with federal employee unions to create and implement a diversity and inclusion plan for the federal workforce. And, he will provide more training and mentoring opportunities to improve retention, and collect better data about who is applying for federal service positions as well as being promoted.

Biden knows that addressing the challenges faced by women and girls is more than just a campaign promise — it's an imperative if the Administration is going to succeed in its broader efforts to make sure the government and economy work for all Americans. Biden will ensure that his administration aggressively protects the rights and addresses the unique needs of all women, including 
, Latina women, Native women, 
, 
, and 
. The Obama-Biden Administration created the 
 to make sure the federal government was doing its best to tackle issues like equal pay, paid family leave, and poverty in an effective manner. The Trump Administration then 
 and put nothing in its place. Biden will create a White House Council on Gender Equality, chaired by a senior member of the Executive Office of the President tasked solely with guiding and coordinating government policy that impacts women and girls, such as economic policy, health care, racial justice, gender-based violence, and foreign policy.

Biden co-sponsored the ERA nine times. As President, he will work with advocates across the country to enshrine gender equality in our Constitution. Now that 
 has become the 38th state to ratify the ERA, Biden will proudly advocate for Congress to recognize that 3/4th of states have ratified the amendment and take action so our Constitution makes clear that any government-related discrimination against women is unconstitutional.



Women hold only 
 men have accumulated and women of color only hold pennies on every dollar a white man holds. Women in the workforce, on average, earn less than men do. When they start a business, they have 
, and have to 
. 
 ages 18-34 are able to save, compared to 70% of men. And women — 
 — hold 
 of the nation's student debt, both exacerbating and resulting from 
 and gender wealth gaps. This is especially detrimental for the over 
 — especially women of color — who are sole or primary breadwinners for their families.

Biden will tackle this wealth gap, including by fighting for equal pay, ending other forms of workplace discrimination and harassment, encouraging and supporting women entrepreneurs and small business owners, making education and training more affordable, providing pathways into high-paying professions, expanding access to paid leave and child care, and strengthening union organizing and collective bargaining.



For every dollar a man makes, the average woman makes 
 — with 
. For a woman who works full time, year round, 
 of more than $10,000 annually. This gap adds up, on average, to over $400,000 throughout a forty-year career and roughly 
 for women of color. The gender 
 women first start working and continues for older women even into retirement, no matter the woman's education level or occupation. It can exacerbate other biases, with a magnified impact for women of color, transgender women, women with disabilities, and 
.

The Lilly Ledbetter Act Fair Pay Act was the 
 the Obama-Biden Administration enacted, and Biden will continue to prioritize closing wage gaps and ending paycheck discrimination. 
, which codifies and expands critical Obama-Biden protections for workers' paychecks. He will build on it as President and protect workers against retaliation for discussing wages. Today, 
 are in a workplace where they can't talk about their current wage rate with other employees without fear of retribution from their employers. 
 and the District of Columbia outlaw employers from retaliating against workers who talk about pay. Under a Biden presidency, it will be national. Biden will also:





 start businesses at two times the rate of men and now represent 42% of the nation's businesses. But, they still raise much less capital — with only about 
 going to women-owned businesses — 
. Biden will ensure women-owned small businesses have the capital, technical assistance, mentorship, and support they need to ensure they are able to grow. For example, Biden will:



Biden will ensure that women receive educational opportunities to unleash their full potential to grow a stronger, more inclusive middle class. He will aggressively enforce Title IX protections to ensure that women and girls receive full access to these opportunities, from admissions to financial aid to sports. In addition, he will:



Biden will focus on improving women's economic security by expanding the pay and benefits for underpaid jobs that are disproportionately filled by women, starting by:



The Affordable Care Act was — and still is — a big deal, especially for women. Because of Obamacare, 
 gained the peace of mind that comes with insurance. And, over 
 no longer have to worry that an insurance company will deny coverage or charge higher premiums just because they have a 
 like high blood pressure, asthma, diabetes, or even pregnancy. Insurance companies can no longer charge someone more because they are a woman — a practice which costs women 
 more than men annually. Young adults can get coverage through their parents' insurance plans until age 26. Insurance plans have to cover essential benefits like maternity care. And, insurance plans now have to cover critical recommended preventive services free of charge.

But now, in the middle of a pandemic, Trump is trying to strip away all health care protections for the millions of Americans who depend on the Affordable Care Act.

As President, Biden will protect and build on Obamacare — to expand access, lower costs, and make quality, affordable health care a right for all. 
 




Before the pandemic, the U.S. already had one of the highest rates of deaths related to pregnancy and childbirth relative to other developed countries, especially among Black women, who were 
 to die from pregnancy complications than non-Hispanic white women, and Native women, who from 2011 to 2016 were 
 more likely to die from pregnancy-related complications than were white women. California came up with a strategy that 
 the state's maternal death rate. As President, Biden will reduce our unacceptably high maternal mortality rate, starting by taking the California strategy nationwide.

Maternal mortality is just one example of the types of health disparities that Biden will direct his Secretary of Health and Human Services to address.



The Affordable Care Act made historic progress ensuring access to 
. The Biden Plan will build on that progress. Vice President Biden supports repealing the Hyde Amendment because health care is a right that should not be dependent on one's zip code or income. And, the public option will cover contraception and a woman's constitutional right under 
. Biden will also:





Biden has taken care of aging parents, and he's been a single parent. He knows how hard it is to raise a family and to care for a sick family member. And, he knows how hard it is for millions of Americans who are just trying to make ends meet. The pandemic has laid bare just how hard it is for women in this country to find access to quality caregiving they need for themselves, or to juggle the responsibilities of working and also caring for family members.

In the United States, women overwhelmingly take on the responsibilities of caring for their families, and thus are disproportionately impacted by the gaps in our caregiving system. Only 
 American workers typically has access to paid family leave if they need it. 
 individuals are even less likely to be able to take paid leave. And, when parents are forced to choose between their jobs and caregiving responsibilities, the costs are great — both to them and to the economy. Women who need to work part-time on average earn 
. And, the lack of family friendly policies is causing many women to 
 completely.

These decisions have real costs for families. A 
 found that a woman in her twenties who left the workforce for five years to care for her young children earns nearly 20% less over her lifetime. A similar study estimated that the absence of paid family and medical leave costs workers and their families roughly 
 in wages. Consequences can be especially severe for 
 who are more likely to be both breadwinners and caregivers, all while earning lower-pay to cushion the loss of work.

Biden will make substantial investments in the infrastructure of care in our country. He will make child care more affordable and accessible for working families, and make it easier for aging relatives and loved ones with disabilities to have quality, affordable home- or community-based care. And, he will ensure all workers have access to up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave, can earn 7 days of paid sick leave, and have fair and flexible schedules so they can more easily manage their families and careers.

Biden will:







One of the driving forces throughout Biden's career has been fighting back against abuses of power — whether economic or physical power. That force motivated him to write and champion the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). He wrote and spearheaded the groundbreaking VAWA in 1990 at a time when few in Washington cared about domestic violence and sexual assault. He lifted survivors' voices, won over the skeptics, and pushed until the bill became law in 1994. The Act created a national hotline for victims. It funded shelters and crisis centers. It trained law enforcement in communities across the country so they were better prepared to investigate violence against women and support survivors of violence. And, it helped change the way Americans understand and fundamentally view violence against women.

Since then, Biden has continued this work by leading efforts to ensure Congress passed legislation renewing and strengthening the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) three times: in 2000, 2005, and 2013. Each time, the VAWA reauthorization has upped the ante and ensured that especially vulnerable communities — from Native women to LGBTQ+ individuals — are included in the Act. Also while in the Senate, Biden introduced and helped pass the 
 in 2008. As Vice President, he established the first White House Advisor on Violence Against Women and started a national effort to change the culture on campus sexual assault. After leaving the White House, Biden continued his work to change the culture of violence and end campus sexual assault through the Biden Foundation.

As President, Biden will build on his strong track record of getting things done for survivors of gender-based violence by pursuing a bold plan to save more lives and make communities safer for all. He will:

.



Governments, economies, industries, and communities everywhere are made stronger when they include the full participation of women. Yet, women are underrepresented in positions of power in most countries around the world. 
 are lost each year from the global economy because women are excluded from full economic participation. 
 worldwide will experience gender-based violence in her lifetime. Globally, 
 
 between the ages of 6 and 17 are not in school; 
 are likely to marry before she turns 18. These statistics are bad for women, they're bad for countries and economies, and they are likely to worsen post-pandemic.

That's why the Obama-Biden Administration put a direct focus on women's and girls' empowerment to enhance our national security. The Administration created the first U.S. 
 on Women, Peace and Security; the first U.S. 
 to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence Globally; as well as the first U.S. 
 to Empower Adolescent Girls. As a Senator, Biden introduced the International Violence Against Women Act (IVAWA), which provided a framework for the United States to address gender-based violence globally. The Obama-Biden administration implemented many of IVAWA's provisions via executive action and adopted its comprehensive approach to gender-based violence.

Yet, instead of building on the progress of the Obama-Biden Administration, Donald Trump has abandoned American leadership and adopted policies that directly harm women, including some of the world's most vulnerable populations. The effects of Trump's policies are compounded as women and girls disproportionately bear the negative impact of the pandemic, particularly those in already-marginalized communities or living in fragile states or as migrants, displaced persons, and refugees.

Biden believes that we must support women through the current health and economic crises, draw on their expertise to ensure an effective recovery, and address the factors that leave them vulnerable in the first place. Biden will restore America's leading role as a champion for women and girls around the world and return to a government-wide focus of uplifting the rights of women and girls at home and abroad. He will:
