





CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: "To gun owners out there who say well a Biden administration means they're going to come for my guns." JOE BIDEN: "Bingo. You're right if you have an assault weapon, the fact of the matter is that they should be illegal. Period." (CNN's "
," 8/5/19)








JOE BIDEN: "Okay. I'm the only person that has beaten the NRA nationally. I'm the guy that got the Brady Bill passed, the background checks, number one. Number two, we increased that background check when — during the Obama-Biden administration. I'm also the only guy that got assault weapons banned, banned, and the number of clips in a gun banned." (Joe Biden, 
, Miami, Fl, 6/27/19)






JOE BIDEN: "I said how many deer do you know that have Kevlar vests, raise your hands. You really need one? And hell, if you need 100 clips, 30 clips in a weapon than you shouldn't be hunting, you're dangerous." (Joe Biden, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Prole, IA, 8/20/19)






JOE BIDEN: "And by the way, the majority of the members of the NRA agree with us now on the things we're calling for. We made the Brady Bill the law, we banned assault weapons, we limited magazine clips. We can do it all over again." (Joe Biden, Speech, Reno, NV, 10/2/19)






JOE BIDEN: "And the reason it got done, was because of a woman I asked to be on the Judiciary Committee, Dianne Feinstein. She is the reason we finally got the assault weapons ban. Eliminating magazines with multiple rounds." (Joe Biden, 
 Washington DC, 10/17/19)






JOE BIDEN: "Nobody says you can't have rounds – a magazine with a hundred clips in it, a hundred bullets in it." (Joe Biden, 
 Concord, NH, 11/8/19)






JOE BIDEN: "I don't want to, I don't want to get rid of the NRA because by the way, 56 percent of the NRA members according [unintelligible] agree with me. They agree with me. They agree we shouldn't be selling these magazines with 100 clips, they agree that we shouldn't be selling assault weapons, 56 percent." (Joe Biden, 
, Derry, NH, 12/30/19)








 VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "If you want to protect yourself, get a double barrel shotgun, have the shells, a 12 gauge shotgun … and I promise you, as I told my wife – we live in an area that is wooded and somewhat secluded – I said Jill, if there's ever a problem just walk out on the balcony here, walk out, put that double barrel shotgun and fire two blasts outside the house. I promise you, whoever's coming in is not – you don't need an AR-15. It's harder to aim, it's harder to use, and in fact you don't need 30 rounds to protect yourself. Buy a shotgun, Buy a shotgun." (Joe Biden, Remarks On Facebook Live, 
, 2/19/13)






 "Vice President Joe Biden told Field & Stream magazine in an interview published Monday, '[if] you want to keep someone away from your house, just fire the shotgun through the door.'" (Steven Nelson, "Biden Adbises Shooting Shotgun Through Door," 
, 2/28/13)

"According to Delaware attorneys contacted by U.S. News, in Biden's home state it is only legal to use deadly force if there is reason to fear imminent loss of life. Shooting a gun in the air could result in felony reckless endangering and aggravated menacing charges, in addition to misdemeanor charges, the lawyers said." (Steven Nelson, "Biden Adbises Shooting Shotgun Through Door," 
, 2/28/13)





JOE BIDEN: "Instead of standing there and teaching a cop when there's an unarmed person coming at them with a knife or something, shoot them in the leg instead of in the heart. There's a lot of different things that can change' in police training." (Joe Biden, "
," Wilmington, DE, 6/1/20)






 "'Former VP Biden's remark is not just indecipherable ('an unarmed person coming at 'em with a knife'?!), it's also misleading to the point of being deceitful,' Bill Johnson, the executive director of the National Association of Police Organizations, told Fox News in an email." (Adam Shaw, "Police Groups Criticize Biden Suggestion That Cops Be Trained To Shoot Knife-Wielding Attackers 'In The Leg'," 
, 6/2/20)

 "'He's not living in the real world because people with knives, those are deadly threats,' Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association National President Larry Cosme, told Fox News in an interview. 'With all due respect to Mr. Biden, he's mixing the two, 'unarmed person with a knife' – I've never heard of an unarmed person with a knife,' he said." (Adam Shaw, "Police Groups Criticize Biden Suggestion That Cops Be Trained To Shoot Knife-Wielding Attackers 'In The Leg'," 
, 6/2/20)