Joe Biden believes that the story of America is one of ordinary people doing extraordinary things. The Latino community is a core part of the American community and their contributions are evident in every part of society. Our nation's ability to draw and welcome hard-working, aspirational people from every culture, from every nation is an indisputable strength. Our diversity is the source of America's constant renewal – the reason we've been able to remake ourselves over and over.

President Trump's assault on Latino dignity started on the very first day of his campaign. His assault doesn't just reveal itself in the betrayal of the Dreamers or in the pardoning of a sheriff who has terrorized the Latino community. It's in the underfunding of schools, in attacks on labor and the ability of workers to bargain for their worth, and in the neglect of Puerto Ricans after Hurricane Maria. Trump's strategy is to sow division – to cast out Latinos as being less than fully American.

As President, Biden will ensure everyone is treated with dignity – no matter their race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, disability, or zip code. And, he will ensure that everyone has a chance to join the middle class, including Latinos and other individuals never given a fair shot in decades past. Today, 
 in the U.S. are Latino. Our collective success depends upon the success of the Latino community.

Biden will be ready beginning on Day 1 to implement changes needed for the Latino community to thrive. Biden will:

Additionally, in recognition of the unique contributions of Latinos to American history over the past 500 years, 
Latino history is intricately woven into the history of America and must be preserved and celebrated. These vast contributions are long overdue to be recognized in the family of Smithsonian Museums. As an initial step, Biden will initiate a feasibility study and a site location for the museum. In July 2020, the U.S. House of Representatives passed by voice vote – on a bipartisan basis – an 
 to establish this museum.

The Obama-Biden Administration made 
 in building a diverse federal workforce, but Biden knows work remains for the country to fully realize the benefits of the talents, abilities, and perspectives of a workforce that looks like the country. As President, Biden will nominate and appoint people who look like the country they serve and share Biden's commitment to rigorous enforcement of civil rights protections. This includes promoting diverse leadership for all federal agencies including the financial regulatory agencies that have a direct impact on the nature of our entire economic system; working with all branches of government, including the Senate and Supreme Court, to create best practices and standards for ensuring racial diversity among clerks, staffers, and interns; and creating a new post within the White House's Council of Economic Advisers to focus on racial equity including the income and wealth gaps. He also will reissue and mandate strict compliance with the Obama-Biden 
 to promote diversity and inclusion in the federal government. He will rebuild the pipeline of workers into the federal government and incentivize more qualified workers to choose public service by forgiving $10,000 a year in student debt for up to five years of public service. He'll tap into the best and brightest talent from every source by developing career pipelines from Hispanic-serving Institutions and other Minority-serving Institutions into federal agencies. Biden will also provide more training and mentoring opportunities to improve retention, and collect better data about who is applying for federal service positions as well as being promoted.



Latinos fill essential roles throughout our economy. But many Latinos are stuck in 
 and have lower rates of 
 and 
 in comparison to non-Hispanic whites. Biden is running for president to rebuild the middle class so that this time, everyone comes along, including Latinos.



Small business ownership is one of our country's cornerstones for wealth building and job creation. However, persistent racial disparities in wealth and access to capital, combined with outright discrimination in the financial sector, have contributed to inequities in small business ownership, growth, and success. For example, Latinos are roughly 
 but own 
. Latino-owned firms also report lack of collateral as a 
 for credit denial.

To address the racial wealth gap, the opportunity gap, and the jobs gap for Latinos, Biden will launch a historic effort to empower small business creation and expansion in economically disadvantaged areas – particularly for Latino-owned businesses and businesses owned by other people of color. In addition to providing small businesses with an ambitious "
" to survive the current crisis and come out the other side strong, he is proposing a special, ongoing initiative to empower these entrepreneurs to succeed and grow with a three-prong Small Business Opportunity Plan. His plan is consistent with key elements in the 
recently proposed by Democratic Senators Chuck Schumer, Mark Warner, Cory Booker, and Kamala Harris. Biden will:



Like many Americans, Biden initially hoped that Opportunity Zones would be structured and administered by the Trump Administration in a way that advanced racial equity, small business creation, and homeownership in low-income urban, rural, and tribal communities. It is now clear that the Trump Administration has failed to deliver on that promise in too many places around America. As the Urban Institute has found, the program as a whole is "
." While there have been positive examples, in too many instances investors favor high-return projects like luxury apartments over affordable housing and local entrepreneurs.

We cannot close the racial wealth gap if we allow billionaires to exploit Opportunity Zones tax breaks to pad their wealth, rather than investing in projects that benefit distressed low-income communities and Americans that are struggling to make ends meet. As President, Biden will task his team to develop a plan for reforming Opportunity Zones, including steps like incentivizing Opportunity Funds to partner with nonprofit or community-oriented organizations and jointly produce a community-benefit plan for each investment. The focus should be on creating jobs for low-income residents and otherwise providing a direct financial impact to households within the Opportunity Zones.



Biden's Build Back Better plan includes a historic procurement effort designed to support small businesses and tackle 
 in the federal contracting system. During his first term, Biden will tighten Buy American requirements for existing procurement and invest $400 billion in additional federal purchases of products made by American workers. And, he will make transparent, targeted investments that unleash new demand for domestic goods and services and create American jobs in communities across the country.

As part of this effort, his multi-pronged small business contracting strategy will include formula-based awards; widespread outreach and counseling to small business owners, especially Latino business owners and other business owners of color; and transparent, frequent monitoring of contract awards. This will make certain that the largest mobilization of public investments in procurement, infrastructure, and R&D since WWII is equitably distributed across communities and businesses. Biden will also take concrete steps to streamline the federal procurement process as a whole and ensure it finally mirrors the demographics of this country. Specifically, Biden will require prime contractors to develop and fully execute plans to increase subcontracting opportunities for small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs). He will also triple the federal goal for contracting with SDBs from 5% to a minimum of 15% of all procurement dollars by 2025. To achieve this goal, which will send tens of billions of additional dollars to Latino communities and other communities of color, Biden will expand long-term technical assistance and federal contracting preferences for SDBs. And, he will incentivize state and local governments and private sector partners to contract with small disadvantaged businesses.

Throughout, Biden will ensure federal dollars support Latino workers and their families. As called for in his 
 to strengthen worker organizing, collective bargaining, and unions, Biden will require that all companies receiving procurement contracts are using taxpayer dollars to support good American jobs, including a commitment to pay at least $15 per hour, provide paid leave, maintain fair overtime and scheduling practices, and guarantee a choice to join a union and bargain collectively.



This pandemic has shown the world who essential workers really are – and many of them are Latino workers who feed the country, keep our communities clean, and care for our loved ones. But for too long they have not been treated with dignity or provided with the opportunity they deserve.

Latino workers still earn a 
 of what white workers earn and are less likely to have essential benefits like health coverage and paid leave. And 
 for every dollar a white man earns, adding up, on average, to over 
 over a lifetime career. This is especially detrimental for the more than 
 who are the sole or primary breadwinners for their family. Biden's plan to build back better requires rooting out discrimination in the workplace so people can earn what they deserve, support their families, and build wealth.

Biden will continue to prioritize closing wage gaps and ending paycheck discrimination. He will increase the federal minimum wage to $15 across the country and eliminate the minimum tipped wage, disproportionately benefitting 
. He will also 
 like restaurants during this economic crisis, helping them get back on their feet so they can keep their doors open and pay their workers. The 
 to over 4 million workers and 
 from losing it, but the Trump Administration reversed this progress, implementing a new rule that leaves millions of workers behind – including 
. Biden will ensure workers are paid fairly for the long hours they work and get the overtime pay they deserve. And he will ensure that domestic workers and farm workers receive overtime protections.

Biden will address discrimination and harassment in the workplace, guarantee up to 12 weeks paid family and medical leave for all workers and up to seven days of paid sick, family, and safe leave. Approximately 
 have experienced employment discrimination and nearly 
 do not have access to any paid leave.

And Biden will make it easier for all workers to organize unions and bargain collectively. Unions are an essential path to the middle class, especially for Latinos. They allow workers to bargain for higher wages and benefits, and with more job protections, many union workers have 
. In fact, Latinos who join a union receive an even 
 pay increase than white workers who join a union, helping to close the wage gap, and one study found Latino union members have 
 of Latino non-union members. Biden will include in the economic recovery legislation he sends to Congress a series of policies to build worker power to raise wages and secure stronger benefits. This legislation will make it easier for workers to organize a union and bargain collectively with their employers by including the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act, card check, union and bargaining rights for public service workers, and a broad definition of "employee" and tough enforcement to end the misclassification of workers as independent contractors. It will also go further than the PRO Act by holding company executives personally liable when they interfere with organizing efforts. And, Biden will restore the ability of federal workers to unionize and collectively bargain.

Biden will also:





Even before the pandemic, more than 
 lived in child care deserts, with limited to no access to licensed child care. When Latino families do find child care, they are paying over 
 – often more than they can afford. At the same time, caregivers and early childhood educators – disproportionately Latino women and other women of color – have been underpaid, unseen, and undervalued for far too long.

Biden believes that if we truly want to reward work in this country, we have to ease the financial burden of care that families are carrying, and we have to elevate the compensation, benefits, training and education opportunities for certification, and dignity of caregiving workers and educators.

He will make substantial investments in the infrastructure of care in our country to make child care more affordable and accessible for working families, and to make it easier for aging relatives and loved ones with disabilities to have quality, affordable home- or community-based care. And, he is proposing to give caregiving workers and early childhood educators a raise and stronger benefits, treating them as the professionals they are. This plan, combined with Biden's proposal to provide families with up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave, will put 3 million Americans to work in new care and education jobs, and increase overall employment by about 5 million after taking into account the economic impacts of increased labor force participation after unpaid caregivers – disproportionately women – are able to pursue paid careers if they so choose.

Biden will:





Biden believes the middle class isn't a number, but a value set that includes the ability to own your own home and live in a safe community. Housing should be a right, not a privilege.
Today, however, far too many Americans lack access to affordable and quality housing. Racial inequality permeates U.S. housing markets, with the 
 for Latino households far below those of their white counterparts. In fact, 
 own their own home, compared to 76% of non-Hispanic white Americans. Because home ownership is how many families save and build wealth, these racial disparities contribute to the racial wealth gap. At the same time, many families around the country face immediate risk of eviction in the midst of the Trump-created economic crisis.

To help families build wealth, secure a safe place to live in a vibrant and prosperous community, and ensure equal access to all aspects of the housing market, Biden will help families buy their first homes and build wealth by creating a new refundable, advanceable tax credit of up to $15,000. Biden's First Down Payment Tax Credit will help low- and middle-income families offset the costs of home buying and help millions of families lay down roots for the first time. Biden will also:



Biden's Build Back Better plan includes a national effort to create the jobs we need to build a modern, sustainable, accessible, infrastructure now and deliver an equitable clean energy future. He will make a $2 trillion accelerated investment, with a plan to deploy those resources over his first term, toward that end.

A major focus of this investment will be to upgrade the infrastructure and job opportunities in Latino communities and other communities of color. Specifically, Biden will:





Latino farmers and other farmers of color have long faced barriers to growing their agricultural businesses, including unfair prices, unequal access to government support, retaliation for civil rights complaints, and outright injustice. For more than 100 years, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) did little to alleviate the burdens of systemic inequality for Latino, Black, and Native farmers and was often the site of injustice. Over two decades ago, class action litigation was filed alleging longstanding discrimination against Latino, Black, Native, and women farmers. The cases dragged on for many years without relief for the complainants and impacted farmers struggled to regain the footing they lost before and during the litigation.

A profound shift occurred for Latino, Black, and Native farmers under the Obama-Biden Administration during which the USDA oversaw the conclusion of what became the largest civil rights settlement in US history, bringing a painful chapter to a close. The settlements in these cases marked the beginning of a renewed commitment to supporting diversity, equity, and an internal reckoning for the USDA. Under Obama-Biden, the USDA sought to address both the structural and cultural causes of systemic inequality that had in prior generations been reproduced by the policies and practices of the agency.

Despite the groundbreaking steps to address inequality that were taken under Obama-Biden, the practices and values of the USDA slid backwards under the authority of the Trump Administration – which ceased many agency-wide efforts to level the playing field.

As President, Biden will build upon the historic progress made during the Obama-Biden Administration, taking additional steps to support the rights of Latino, Black, and Native farmers by establishing an equity commission that will focus on the unique jurisdictional and regulatory barriers that Latino, Black, and Native farmers, ranchers, and fishers must negotiate and make sure that processes are streamlined and simplified to promote new and beginning farming and ranching operations by Latino, Black, and Native farmers. Biden will advance a comprehensive effort to assist in both the purchase of farmland and the ability of Latino, Black, and Native farmers to keep that land. This includes credit and technical support in the form of expedited credit, low-interest loans, and technical assistance. In addition, Biden recognizes the disadvantage that Latino, Black, and Native farmers face when they are forced to compete with other farmers who have decades of privileged access to federal assistance. As President, he will explore the use of land trusts, cooperative farm operations, and farm credit systems geared towards Latino, Black, and, Native farmers as a means to support this population and diversify our agricultural sector.

Farmworkers – who are disproportionately Latino and immigrant workers – have always been essential to working our farms and feeding our country. As President, Biden will ensure farmworkers are treated with the dignity and respect they deserve, regardless of immigration status. He will work with Congress to provide legal status based on prior agricultural work history, ensure they can earn paid sick time, and require that labor and safety rules, including overtime, humane living conditions, and protection from pesticide and heat exposure, are strictly enforced.





The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the long-standing, pervasive disparities that exist across our health care system due to unequal access to treatment. While we are still learning about the impact of COVID-19 – 
 has emerged that suggests Latino communities are bearing disproportionate harm from the pandemic. Latinos are at an increased risk both of getting COVID-19 and of experiencing severe illness. Latinos are 
 to experience hospitalization due to COVID-19 than non-Hispanic white persons. President Trump should work with Congress to immediately enact Senator Kamala Harris' bill to 
 a task force to address the racial disparities that have been laid bare by this pandemic. As President, Biden will do everything in his power to eliminate health care disparities.



In the short term, Biden's COVID-19 response plan 
 the Trump Administration to drop its support of a lawsuit to overturn Obamacare. Millions of Americans have already lost their health insurance because they lost their job, and millions more may find health care increasingly difficult to afford. During this crisis, Biden would expand access to quality, affordable health care for all through:



Because of Obamacare, over 
 no longer have to worry that an insurance company will deny coverage or charge higher premiums just because they have a 
 – whether cancer or diabetes or heart disease or a mental health challenge. Insurance companies 
 on coverage. 
obtained the peace of mind that comes with health insurance. Young people who are in transition from school to a job have the option to 
 until age 26. As a result, the uninsured rate among Latinos plummeted from 
 in the wake of Obamacare – the most substantial decrease of any racial or ethnic group. Now, in the middle of a pandemic, Trump is trying to strip away all health care protections for the millions of Latinos who depend on the Affordable Care Act. If President Trump is successful in his efforts to overturn the Affordable Care Act, some estimates show that 
 Latinos under age 65 will lose their health insurance.

As President, Biden will build on Obamacare to expand Latinos' access to quality, affordable care. He will:



As part of Biden's more than $70 billion investment in Hispanic-serving Institutions (HSIs), other Minority-serving Institutions (MSIs), and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), he will invest $10 billion to create at least 200 new centers of excellence that serve as research incubators and connect students underrepresented in fields critical to our nation's future to learning and career opportunities. He will develop robust internship and career pipelines at major research agencies, including National Institutes of Health. He will also dedicate additional and increased priority funding streams at federal agencies for grants and contracts for HSIs, other MSIs, and HBCUs. He will require any federal research grants to universities with an endowment of over $1 billion to form a meaningful partnership and enter into a 10% minimum subcontract with an HSI, other MSI, or HBCU. And, Biden will invest $5 billion in graduate programs in health care, along with teaching and STEM, at these schools.





 of K-12 public school students are Latino. Biden will make sure that every child in America has the chance to realize their full potential starting at birth, regardless of their zip code, race, or family income. Biden will work with states to ensure every low- and middle-income family has access to high-quality child care and to make high-quality pre-K available to every child. He'll close the gap between white and non-white school districts by nearly tripling Title I funding, the federal program funding schools with a high percentage of students from low-income families. This new funding will first be used to ensure teachers at Title I schools are paid competitively, three- and four-year olds have access to pre-school, and districts provide access to rigorous coursework – including computer science and other STEM subjects – across all their schools, not just a few. He'll expand "community schools" that serve the needs of students and parents; and double the number of school psychologists, nurses, school counselors, and social workers, giving kids the support they need to grow. Biden will work to ensure that more public schools have additional resources to support English learners and ensure their parents receive information in the language they understand so they can participate in their child's education. And, through partnerships between high schools, community colleges, and employers, Biden will make sure that all kids have a chance to graduate with an industry credential, ready to compete in the 21st century workforce.

Biden will also expand access for Latinos to quality, affordable education and training beyond high school. For too many, earning a degree or other credential after high school is unaffordable today. For others, their education saddles them with so much debt it prevents them from buying a home or saving for retirement, or their parents or grandparents take on some of the financial burden. But roughly 
 require some education beyond high school. Biden will:





Last year, a single gunman killed 23 individuals in El Paso. He picked this city because of its diversity, rich Hispanic heritage, and close friendship with the people of Ciudad Juarez. This horrific tragedy, part of a disturbing increase in anti-Latino hate crimes, calls on all of us to recommit to the battle for the soul of the nation. According to the FBI, reported anti-Latino hate incidents increased by more than 40 percent between 
 and 
. We must fight against white supremacy, which President Trump has emboldened. And we must fight against gun violence in all of its forms – mass shootings and the daily acts of gun violence that don't make headlines but are just as tragic for the families and communities affected.

Biden will pursue evidence-based measures to root out persistent violent crime and hate crimes. Violent offenders need to be held accountable, and survivors need to have access to support to deal with the physical, psychological, and financial consequences of violence. Biden will tackle the rise in hate crimes through moral leadership that makes clear such vitriol has no place in the United States. And, in the Biden Administration, the Justice Department will prioritize prosecuting hate crimes.

Additionally, Biden will address the daily acts of gun violence in our communities that may not make national headlines, but are just as devastating to survivors and victims' families as gun violence that does make the front page. These daily acts of gun violence disproportionately impact Latinos and Black people. Biden will create a 
 to fund evidence-based interventions in 40 cities across the country – the 20 cities with the highest number of homicides, and 20 cities with the highest number of homicides per capita. This proposal is 
 over the eight-year program.





Trump has waged an unrelenting assault on our values and our history as a nation of immigrants. It's wrong, and it stops when Biden is elected President. The current Administration's racist and wrong-headed immigration policies have created a humanitarian crisis on our border, undermined a key source of our economic strength, and weakened our moral standing in the world.

Biden knows that it's past time to overhaul our broken immigration system. As Vice President, he backed reforms that would have established a path to citizenship and when Congress failed to pass them, the Obama-Biden Administration created and then expanded the DACA program to give Dreamers a chance to pursue their lives without fear of deportation.

On his first day in office, Biden will send to Congress a bill for legislative immigration reform that will modernize our immigration system and give nearly 11 million undocumented immigrants a roadmap to citizenship. Biden knows that we can secure our borders and uphold our laws in a way that is humane, just, and that establishes a rational set of rules for aspiring immigrants. He will invest in smart technology that addresses the real threats to U.S. security, ones that primarily come to our country through our legal ports of entry, and he'll restore our asylum system so that it once more offers protection and safe harbor to people fleeing dangers. He'll ensure those seeking refuge in the United States are treated with dignity and get the fair hearing they're legally entitled to receive, and surge the resources to hire more immigration judges and asylum officers to address the current crisis. Moreover, a Biden Administration will immediately review every Temporary Protected Status (TPS) decision made by the Trump Administration to ensure that no one is returned to a country that is not safe, extend TPS to Venezuelans seeking relief from the humanitarian crisis brought on by the Maduro regime, and offer TPS recipients who have been in the country for an extended period of time a path to citizenship through legislative immigration reform.



As President, Biden will take urgent action to end the Trump Administration's violations of human dignity and restore our nation's moral leadership by:



As President, Biden will commit significant political capital to finally deliver legislative immigration reform to ensure that the U.S. remains open and welcoming to people from every part of the world – and to bring hardworking people who have enriched our communities and our country, in some cases for decades, out of the shadows.

Specifically, Joe Biden will work with Congress to pass legislation that:
