Today, President Donald J. Trump announced the recipients of the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Mathematics and Science Teaching (PAEMST) and the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and Engineering Mentoring (PAESMEM).

Awardees are selected from schools in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) schools, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States territories which includes American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the United States Virgin Islands. Nominations and awards are facilitated by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and the National Science Foundation.



Established in 1983, PAEMST is the highest award given by the U.S. Government to kindergarten through 12th grade teachers of mathematics and science, including computer science.

A panel of distinguished mathematicians, scientists, and educators at the State and National levels assess the applications before recommending nominees to OSTP. Teachers are selected based on their distinction in the classroom and dedication to improving science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education.



PAESMEM recognizes the critical role mentors play outside the traditional classroom setting in the academic and professional development of the future STEM workforce.

Colleagues, administrators, and students nominate individuals and organizations for exemplary mentoring sustained over a minimum of five years. Since 1995, PAESMEM has honored the hard work and dedication which mentors exhibit in broadening participation in the STEM pipeline.

Mentors support learners from kindergarten through the collegiate levels, as well as those who recently started their careers in STEM. Mentors share their expertise and guidance with learners, sometimes through formal mentoring programs. Mentors have demonstrated impact on individuals historically underrepresented in STEM.



Jessye Gaines
Pamela Hamilton

Chohla Moll
Tricia Turley

Lynnea Bahm
Christine Mendoza

Mary Hatch
Melodie Murray

Janice Coonrod
Brian Shay

Linda Cochran
Erin Greenwood

Christopher Newlan
Stephanie Quarato

Jordan Estock
Eileen Voltz

Ashley Kearney
William Stafford

Alysia Durham
Anna Sansone

Becky Bride
Scott Sowell

Megan Heberle
Pamela Hytower

Tessie Ford
Kristie Yamamoto

Jerod Morehouse

Tanya Katovich
David Sladkey

Kirstin Milks
Angela Snyder

Bradley Jacobson
Sharon Jaeschke

Luke Henke
Margaret Richard

Torri Martin
Keri Meador

Margaret Acree
Paula Callender

John Cangelosi
Robyn Graziano

Hemalatha Bhaskaran
Stacie Marvin

Douglas Scott
Jedediyah Williams

Theodore Emch
Holly Hereau

Eric Friberg
Jessica Macken

Shani Bourn
LeShundra Young

Jessica Haskins
Elegan Kramer

Robert Jensen
Mary McMahon

Debra Bulin
Amy Leising

Jodi Cunningham
Richard Scroggie

Susan Downer
Michelle Morton-Curit

Jennifer Fitzgerald
Alessandra MacFarlane

Jessica Esquibel
Melody Hagaman

Kelly Jakab-Muller
Christina Pawlowski

Tyler Erb
Jill Francis

Kimberly Carpenter
Jessica Gregerson

Carolyn Petite
Jeremy Secaur

Cheryl Fentress
Brigit Minden

Jason Galbraith
Kerryn Henderson

Susan Matthias
William McWatters

Ruth Caraballo
Yamitza Rosas Rodriguez

Robert Mayne
Jane Ramos

David Degenhardt
Jenny Van Buren

Denise Clemens
Carla Diede

Billie Long
Huguette Williams

Katherine Fincher
Bridget Matamoros-Mota

Dymphnia Paulyn San Nicolas-Diaz
Lali Thundiyil

Natalie Darrington
David Morrill

Philip Surks
Jennifer Wood

Myron Blosser
Aziz Zahraoui

Carol McKay
Amy Peterson

Karen Donathan
Angela McKeen

Katie Haas
Karen Olson

Aimee Kay
Jennifer Kelley



Overtoun Jenda, Auburn University

Olivia A. Graeve, University of California, San Diego
David Eisenbud, Mathematical Sciences Research Institute*

Paul Charles, U.S. Naval Research Laboratory

Mulatu Lemma, Savannah State University

Sara Hook, National Cancer Institute at Frederick*

William Earl McHenry, Mississippi e-Center at Jackson State University

Marie T. Mora, University of Missouri-St. Louis

Ivonne Díaz-Claisse, HISPA, Inc.*

Angela Wandinger-Ness, University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center

Sheldon Weinbaum, The City College of New York

Joe Cecil, Oklahoma State University

John Hatherill, Del Mar College
Maria Cristina Villalobos, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley

Eve Ann Riskin, University of Washington

* indicates Organizational Awardee