Donald J. Trump for President, Inc., along with the Republican National Committee and the Nevada Republican Party, 
 suit Tuesday night in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada to invalidate Nevada Democrats' unconstitutional Assembly Bill 4 (AB4), which systematically attacks election integrity and tears down key election security safeguards, putting millions of Nevadans' ballots at risk this November. This unlawful legislation mandates universal vote-by-mail in Nevada and allows ballots cast after Election Day to be included in the state's results.

"Every American who is eligible to vote should be able to freely do so," 
 "Republicans have always supported efforts to make it easier for voters to cast their ballot. At the same time, however, the electoral process cannot function properly if it lacks integrity and results in chaos. Put simply, the American people must be able to trust that the result is the product of a free and fair election."

: "Democrats know President Trump is gaining ground in Nevada, so they fully and fundamentally overhauled Nevada's election laws in a rushed 72-hour attempt to rig the election. This unconstitutional legislation implements the exact universal vote-by-mail system President Trump has been warning against for months, making it nearly impossible for every Nevada voter's ballot to count. Nevada Democrats are allowing ballots cast 
 Election Day to count, practically inviting Nevada's elected liberal leaders to hold the election open until their political operatives harvest enough ballots to swing the election in their favor—ultimately delaying the election. President Trump will not stand for this attack on election integrity, and he is fighting to protect Nevada's right to vote."

: "Democrats changed the rules of the game at the last minute to try and rig this election. They overturned a bipartisan ballot harvesting ban to allow strangers to pick up a ballot for anyone, including the most vulnerable to COVID-19, and have thrown out many important safeguards. Nevadans saw the dangers of automatically mailing ballots during their June primary. The integrity of the election was at risk then, and it is even more so now. AB4 will destroy the confidence every voter deserves to have in our elections."





To read the full lawsuit filing, click 
.