Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House.

Your pool loaded into the motorcade at 8:53am and we're now holding until further instruction. I will send updates as they come.

The pool was not tested for COVID-19 this morning. 


At 9:20am President Trump exited the West Wing wearing a white polo shirt and white baseball cap.

We're now rolling to an undisclosed location. 


The pool passed by Trump National Golf Club in Virginia at 10am. We are now holding across the street at Lucia's Italian restaurant.

We passed some dog walkers who booed the motorcade as we went by, one woman with a sign that read "We are good trouble," and a man in a red "Make America Great Again" cap who saluted the vans. 


The pool departed Trump National in Sterling, Va. at 1:57pm, roughly 4 hours after we arrived.

According to Shirish Dáte (https:/twitter.com/svdate/status/1289565136621977602%3c) 's count, today was the president's 264th golf outing, and his 89th day at the golf course at Sterling.

A much larger crowd was gathered outside the club this time. There were several Trump supporters holding "Trump-Pence" signs on one side of the street, while protestors with "Biden for President" signs gathered on the opposite side. Ok the protestors' side, "Trump killed Herman Cain" was written on the road in chalk (photos attached).

Your pooler spotted a sign that read "PIG" with a blonde wig attached to it, as well as another that read "Commander in Cheat," among others. Two Jeep Wranglers withpro-Trump and American flags also drove back-and-forth through the neighborhood.

At one point, a police car stopped, and it appeared that officers could take photos of the peaceful protestors/ the road.

We're now rolling back to the White House. 


The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 2:36pm.

Your pooler saw the president walk in through the West Wing.

Apologies for any typos in the last email. 


At 2:37pm the White House called a travel/photo lid.

Enjoy your weekend everyone! 