Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning,

I'm your print pooler for the day.

There have been no changes to the schedule so far and no White House officials have gaggled outside.

White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany is scheduled to brief reporters in the Brady Briefing Room at 11 a.m.

There's a closed press presidential memorandum signing at 12:15.

In the early evening, President Trump will hold an on camera "news conference" in the Brady Briefing Room at 5 p.m.

No word yet on whether other administration or Coronavirus Task Force officials will be on hand to answer reporters questions.

President Trump had a busy morning on Twitter, tweeting his disapproval about members of the SF Giants kneeling during the national anthem, touting "tremendous progress" being made on coronavirus vaccines, as well as strong stock market numbers, which he said could "dive" if Americans vote for the "Radical Left." He also quoted Judge Andrew Napolitano as saying Gen. Flynn, in his view, "should never have been prosecuted in the first place." In the last hour, Trump renewed warnings over mail-in voting, which he said could lead to "the most CORRUPT ELECTION in our Nation's History."

I'll keep you posted on any developments. 


At 11:13 a.m. we just received a 2-minute warning for the press briefing with Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany. 


We just got a lunch lid until 2:15 p.m.

The White House also separately sent out the details about the memorandum President Trump signed at 12:15 p.m. excluding illegal immigrants from the apportionment base following the 2020 census.

I've included the information, below.

[
]


The White House just clarified that the president signed the memorandum at 1:10 p.m.

My print pool report #3 mistakenly said it was signed at 12:15 p.m. 


We just got the two-min warning for Pres. Trump's news conference. 


At 5:58 p.m., White House called a travel photo lid.

Have a nice evening!


The White House sent this out last night after a lid was called.

My apologies for just seeing this now:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of the United Arab Emirates. The two leaders discussed a range of regional security issues including the importance of de-escalation in Libya through the removal of foreign forces. The President and the Crown Prince discussed the strategic relationship between the United States and the United Arab Emirates and the strong partnership this entails across a wide range of issues. President Trump also expressed well wishes to the people of the United Arab Emirates in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. 