Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House on this sleepy Saturday morning. I'll be your print pooler today.
Pool was called to gather at the Palm Room Doors at 7.45 a.m. and are loading into vans for an undisclosed location.
The president has no public events on his schedule today. I'll bring you updates as I get them.
Motorcade arrived at Trump National Golf Club in Virginia at 9.04 a.m. after an uneventful 35 minute ride.
A handful of protesters and a man dressed as the Grim Reaper were gathered at the entrance. Your pooler saw one sign which read “Trust Fauci” and a flatbed truck parked outside with a large billboard that read “TREASONOUS TRAITOR TRUMP.”
Pool is now holding at a nearby strip mall.
Here's a snap of the flatbed truck I mentioned earlier.
Your pooler thought the owner may have followed us to the mall but turns out they were just hungry.
Mad Dog PAC are behind the truck. They purchased it from Texas a few weeks ago and plan to change out the billboard everyone couple of weeks.
The owner told your pooler they are a Democrat PAC with an average donation of $35.
Pool is holding in vans outside the Trump National Golf Club.
Emergency crews were seen entering the golf course earlier after an elderly hiker got disorientated and called 911, my TV pool colleague confirms.
A growing crowd of Trump supporters and protesters are heckling each other on opposite sides of the street outside.
Your pooler can see at least one tribute to Rep. John Lewis which reads: “We are good trouble.” It's 93 degrees in Sterling which could explain why the Grim Reaper spotted earlier has since left.
A couple of Jeeps with large Trump 2020 flags have also been doing laps of the golf course for the past 45 minutes.
44724309095_d004613fc8_o.jpg
The president's motorcade departed Trump National Golf Course at 1.45 p.m. — four and a half hours after arrival.
Your pooler has asked for details on who the president's golf partners were today and will pass them along if/when they are available.
President Trump was spotted on the course in a red Make America Great Again hat and a white polo. I have yet to confirm reports he was joined by Sen. Lindsey Graham (R - S.C.).
We are rolling toward unknown destination.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 2.27 p.m.
A travel/photo lid was called at 2.32 p.m.
Your pooler can confirm Sen. Lindsey Graham was the president's golfing budding after he emerged from the president's SUV at the White House.
Enjoy the rest of the weekend, guys, and stay safe.