Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House. I'll be your print pooler today. The sunny weather is sweltering and expected to reach 97 degrees.

>From the White House:

"National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien tested positive for COVID-19. He has mild symptoms and has been self-isolating and working from a secure location off site. There is no risk of exposure to the President or the Vice President. The work of the National Security Council continues uninterrupted."

Your pooler asked for attribution for this quote and was told to say the "White House passes along" this note or something along those lines.

Pool took the customary COVID test this morning. No news is good news on that front. 


Pool was escorted at 10:53 to the South Lawn, where the Marine band was playing and about a dozen individuals were pre-positioned wearing "The Walking Marine" red shirts. Two individuals held a red "Finish Line" banner marked with the presidential seal. Masks worn by everyone.

POTUS, in a striped tie and dark suit, exited the South Portico at 11:12, preceded by two Marines in dress uniform who stood outside the door.

Terry Sharpe crossed the finish line at 11:13 with Second Lady Karen Pence to the applause of onlookers. He approached POTUS and VA Secretary Wilkie and the four engaged in inaudible conversation. Lots of hand gestures and at one point POTUS shook his head in disdain on some unknown topic.

The four went into a line to pose for a photo, then after more conversation, beckoned the onlookers to come forward closer to the South Portico. More inaudible conversation followed as well as another photo. The onlookers concluded by uttering, Thank you!"

Here's some photos of what took place to give you an idea: 


POTUS saluted the Marine by the South Portico, then entered at 11:19. Pool escorted out moments later.

More info here on the "The Walking Marine," Terry Sharpe, who's running to raise awareness for veteran suicide: 


>From the White House:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will greet United States Marine Corps Veteran Terry Sharpe, known as "The Walking Marine," on the South Lawn of the White House as he completes his 300-mile walk from North Carolina to raise awareness for veteran suicide. Second Lady Karen Pence will meet Terry at the Washington Monument to join him in the final stretch of his eighth and final journey.

Terry often refers to his walk as "300 Miles for the 22," bringing awareness to the devastating fact that, on average, 20-22 veterans die by suicide each day. President Trump has taken unprecedented action to combat this national tragedy by signing an Executive Order to establish the PREVENTS Task Force, a whole-of-government approach to actively engage with America's veterans and raise awareness on mental health resources available across the country. President Trump also secured a record $73.1 billion in funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs, revolutionized their healthcare system by signing the VA MISSION Act, and expanded their telehealth services through his "Anywhere to Anywhere" initiative.



President Donald J. Trump
Second Lady Karen Pence

 Secretary Robert Wilkie, 
 


Larry Kudlow gaggled with reporters on Pebble Beach after an interview on Fox News. Kudlow wore a mask while answering questions, which he said he put on because all reporters were wearing them.

Listen: 


On O'Brien getting COVID: "I spoke to him last last week. I don't have much to say. I wish him well. Apparently it's a light case." Adds he believes O'Brien got COVID from his daughter.

On his new facemask: "You know why? You were all wearing one. Look, I've been emphasizing
masks for a good two weeks, three weeks, actually. We're not going to keep the economy open, we're not going to get the V-shaped recovery, we're not going to get kids back to school unless we follow simple guidelines: masking, distancing, testing...."

Asked about reports White House is proposing a $200 flat federal unemployment boost as part of congressional COVID economic stimulus talks, Kudlow said he spoke to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin. Kudlow emphasized state benefits, which he said is about "half of it," will continue regardless.

"These are technical adjustments to the formulas. I don't want to predict. They're in final discussions as we talk," Kudlow said.

Kudlow said White House is proposing a "work retention credit" that he said would go to employers, but when asked to clarify said he "doesn't know what numbers are floated around."

"This was part of CARES 1 and we're going to build on it in CARES 2 or whatever this is," Kudlow said.
Kudlow was optimistic, for the most part, about the upcoming July employment numbers: "There's a housing boom going on. Auto sales and production are booming. The trucking story continues to improve and the retailing story continues to improve. One area that is not, and I think that's because of the Cal, Texas, Florida issue, the in-house dining...Anyway, that's, that's slipped over. All right, I acknowledge that. And my guess is, there will be other data points that will show a moderation in my V-shaped recovery in July. I don't deny that."

Kudlow said he spoke with Dr. Birx and "she's beginning to see now some stabilization and these big states and much much improvement in Arizona." 


Here's a corrected link to the Otter recording of the Kudlow gaggle: 


Apologies for the incorrect link before. 


The White House has called a lunch lid until 1 pm. 


POTUS emerged from the Oval Office at 1:42, still wearing his striped tie and dark suit, then you proceeded to pool near the South Portico.

Talking to reporters, POTUS touted stock market and said he just had a meeting on vaccines.

Qs now

Deep apologies, but there was an error in Otter recording. Your pooler will do the best he can.

O'Brien
"I haven't seen him lately."

Three years after POTUS tweeted out a ban on transgender people in the military (July 26, 2017) your pooler asked whether he'd reconsider it now. POTUS dubiously claimed he couldn't hear question because of pooler's face mask.

Drugs EO?
"Given that right" by DACA decision
Says drug prices will come down
"No President has ever done" what I did.

POTUS proceeded solo to Marine One, which lifted off at 1:50.

More to come... 


Here's an audio of the Q&A I was able to reclaim. Apologize for the interference with the audio by the engine of Marine One.



This is the recording from TV pool. It's better quality in terms of what POTUS is saying, although reporters are generally inaudible.



Your pooler initially missed this important response when POTUS was asked whether he'd pay respects to John Lewis on Capitol Hill.

"I won't be going. No." 


POTUS: So thank you very much. The stock market is doing well. The economy is doing very well. I think we're going to have a tremendous…a lot of things are happening. I just had a meeting on vaccines and therapeutics. And it was a great meeting. We had a lot of our wonderful doctors and researchers with me. I think the meeting went really well. We're doing well on vaccines, we're doing well on therapeutics. And now I'm heading to North Carolina to look exactly at that.

Q&A

O'Brien?
POTUS: "I haven't seen him lately. I heard he tested. Yeah. I have not seen him […]"

When did he test positive?
POTUS: "I don't know."

Pay respects to John Lewis?
POTUS: "No, I won't be going. No."

Reconsider ban on transgender people in military?
POTUS: "I can't hear you…I can't hear a word you're saying."

Drug pricing EO?
POTUS: "We have a great thing happening with the lowering of the drug prices and drug prices in our country will be coming down very substantially. I was given that right because of the DACA decision. The DACA decision allowed me to do things that some people thought the president didn't have the right to do. I was given the right. Drug prices will be coming down very, very substantially. No other president has been allowed to do that. No other president has been able to do that. No president has ever done what I've done for prescription drug prices, and by the way, for many other things, too."

Handing things off to out of town pooler. 


Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 6:00 pm. POTUS emerged shortly after, still wearing the striped tie and dark suit.

Giving a wave to reporters, POTUS ignored shouted questions from ABC's Ben Gittelson on why he won't pay his respects to John Lewis. POTUS entered the South Portico at 6:03.

Following POTUS were Jared Kushner, Kayleigh McEnany, Stephen Miller, Peter Navarro and others. 


The White House called a travel-photo lid at 6:10. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Good afternoon from JBA, where Marine One landed at 1:58 p.m. The president stepped off a few minutes later, walked over to Air Force One and boarded without coming over to speak with the pool. He waved at the top of the steps at 2:02 pm. He was not wearing a mask.

Pooler spotted Kayleigh McEnany, Jared Kushner and HHS Secretary Alex Azar boarding behind POTUS. Azar was wearing a mask, the other two were not. I have asked the press office for a list of officials traveling today.

Air Force One is rolling at 2:06 and we will be wheels up momentarily for North Carolina.

Pool was tested for COVID-19 this morning at the White House and given another temperature screening here at the base upon arrival. 


Air Force One was wheels up at 2:10 p.m. and wheels down at 2:49 p.m. at Raleigh-Durham International Airport after an uneventful flight.

Fox News played on the TV screens in the press cabin airing the John Lewis memorial at the Capitol.

The following officials are on board traveling to North Carolina today with the president, per the White House:

Secretary Azar
Rep. Dan Bishop
Rep. Richard Hudson
Rep. David Rouzer
Rep. Greg Murphy
Jared Kushner
Stephen Miller
Peter Navarro
Derek Lyons
Kayleigh McEnany 


POTUS deplaned at 3:04 p.m. and descended the steps to meet with local officials on the tarmac. The president did not wear a mask, though he kept a few feet of distance as he briefly spoke to each official. All four of the local officials were wearing masks and were spaced a few feet apart.

Motorcade is rolling to Bioprocess Innovation at Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnoligies for what the schedule lists as a 15 minute drive.

The White House passes along the following list of greeters who met the president upon his arrival:

Representative Mark Walker
United States Representative from North Carolina's 6th Congressional District

Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest
Lieutenant Governor of North Carolina

State Representative Tim Moore
Speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives and State Representative North Carolina's 111th State House District

State Senator Phil Berger
North Carolina Senate President Pro Tempore and State Senator from North Carolina's 30th State Senate District 


Motorcade arrived at the biotech facility at 3:26 p.m. A few dozen supporters braved the high heat and humidity (currently "feels like" 106 degrees Fahrenheit) to line the street near the airport access road. A few waved Trump flags and many others held up their phones.

Just outside the entrance to the facility a couple hundred supporters gathered to wave Trump campaign flags and homemade signs praising the president, urging him to keep draining the swamp, etc.

Within the crowd of supporters were at least a half dozen protesters who waved signs that read "Biden 2020" and "Nazi go home" among other messages.

Pool is now holding in a room that is set up for what appears to be a briefing from the president. A podium is flanked by American flags and screens displaying "Operation Warp Speed." Photo attached.

The White House passes along the following background on today's visit and who will he in attendance.

Today, President Donald J. Trump will tour facilities that are used in support of manufacturing of key components of the COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed by Novavax. Following the tour, the President will deliver remarks where he will discuss the collaboration between his Administration and the private sector to rapidly develop a vaccine for COVID-19.

Because of President Trump's aggressive approach to protecting the health of Americans in response to the coronavirus, cutting bureaucratic red tape, and the unprecedented partnerships forged between private companies and the Federal Government, the timeline for development and approval of a COVID-19 vaccine has been significantly sped up.



President Donald J. Trump
 Jared Kushner, 


Secretary Alex Azar, 


Senator Thom Tillis,
Representative Richard Hudson, 
Representative David Rouzer,
Representative Dan Bishop,
Representative Greg Murphy, 
Representative Mark Walker,


Dan Forest, 
State Representative Tim Moore, 
State Senator Phil Berger, 
Martin Meeson, 
Stanley Erck, 
 


President Trump stepped up to the podium at 3:32 p.m. His remarks can be viewed live here: 


He opened by announcing a Moderna vaccine is entering phase three of clinical trials.

The president said he will follow his remarks with a tour of the facility and perhaps a few press questions. Your pooler spotted Jared Kushner, Peter Navarro and Sen. Thom Tillis seated off to the side of the room wearing a mask during the president's remarks. 


President Trump wrapped up his remarks at 3:56 and is now expected to take a tour of the facility. He opened with updates on vaccine development and later moved to discussing the administration's pandemic response more broadly. He closed by taking a few questions from reporters. Highlights below, and a reminder this was livestreamed on the White House's website.

Soonest you expect a vaccine?

"I heard very positive things, but by the end of the year we think we're in very good shape to be doing that."

Talk of Russian bounties on US soldiers on call with Putin?: "We don't talk about what we discussed but we had plenty of discussion and I think it was very productive."

Economic recovery: He expressed confidence in the recovery and said "a lot of governors should be opening up states that they're not opening.

Polls? Said poll numbers are very good, same suprresion type polls we have polls that shos me leading in almost every swing state and substantially in other states. Cited boater support with flags. bikers for trump with lies miles long. i think there's more spirit now than there's ever been for my campaign

In his prepared remarks, the president boasted of the sheer volume of tests conducted in the United States and said that two laboratories were approved to conduct pooled testing to quicken the turnaround time on getting results.

The president again suggested that the number of infections in the United States is higher than other countries due to the country's testing capabilities.

"In Latin America due to relative scarcity of testing, the region's reported number of cases is also likely to be dramatically undercut or undercounted," he said, adding that the same is "probably true" for the rest of the world."

He took a swipe at the Obama administration, again claiming the stockpile of critical supplies was "depleted" when he took office.

Trump also offered this message to Americans on combatting the virus:

"I trust all Americans to do the right thing but we strongly advise everyone to especially, especially focus on maintaining a social distance, maintain a rigorous hygiene, avoid crowded gatherings and indoor bars and wear masks when appropriate." 


President Trump walked into view of the pool at 4:03 p.m. for a tour of a portion of the lab facility here where they are making components for a potential vaccine. He is wearing a mask.

The lab staff all had masks and goggles. The discussion is taking place on the other side of the room and is, for now, inaudible to your pooler. More details to come. 


The president's tour of the facility in front of the pool lasted only a few minutes. He did not come over to speak to reporters or take questions.

Your pooler could hear bits of the president chatting with the executives giving the tour, asking at one point if the function a machine was performing used to be done by hand. He closed by wishing the executives good luck.

Pool was ushered out and loaded into pool vans, where we are holding as of 4:15. In total, the press spent a little under an hour inside the biotech facility. 


Motorcade pulled out of the Fujifilm innovation center at 4:23 p.m. 


Motorcade returned to Raleigh-Durham International Airport at 4:40 p.m. A few dozen supporters were again assembled near the access road leading into the airport, with at least one waving a "Trump 2020" flag.

Your pooler did not see POTUS board Air Force One. Peter Navarro boarded with the press in the rear of the plane.

We are rolling at 4:47 p.m. and should be wheels up momentarily for the return trip to JBA. 


Air Force One landed at JBA at 5:35 p.m. after an uneventful flight. Fox News played on the TV screens in the press cabin. Coverage just prior to and during the landing was of Joe and Jill Biden paying their respects to John Lewis at the Capitol.

The president deplaned a few minutes after the plane came to a stop, waving to press at the bottom of the steps before heading for Marine One.

POTUS was followed off the plane by Peter Navarro, Kayleigh McEnany, Jared Kushner and Stephen Miller. All wore masks, except Miller, who appeared to have a face covering around his neck.

Marine One lifted off at 5:51 p.m. My thanks to co-pooler Sebastian Smith for his help today. Handing off to in-town pool. 