Pool Reports by 
, 




Flagging that a 5:30 press conference with the president has been added.

Kellyanne gaggled this morning before the call time for the pool. CSpan has it here: >


A lunch lid was declared at 2:33 or 2:34 p.m. until 3:15 p.m.


President Trump is due to arrive in the East Room shortly to deliver remarks on "Operation Legend: Combatting Violent Crime in American Cities." Event is to be live-streamed at Whitehouse.gov.

Guests have begun entering at 3:23 pm. Chairs —36 of them —are spaced roughly 3 feet apart. Three "Seeking Information Posters" are on the platform.

One is for LEGEND TALIFERRO, a homicide victim from Kansas City, Missouri. Another is for Jacqueline Vigil, a homicide victim, of Albuquerque, NM. The third is of Vernado Jones Jr., a homicide victim from Chicago, Ill. 


Lots of phones going off due to a flash flood warning being issued.

Kansas City, Missouri police chief Rick Smith is here, seated next to Bernalillo (NM) Sheriff Manuel Gonzalez III. Someone from the Cook County, Illinois is also here. I'm told it is Leo Schmitz, who I believe is chief of public safety. Please check spelling. 


List of attendees. President entered room at 356 pm

Today, President Donald J. Trump will provide an update on Operation Legend, the coordinated law enforcement initiative that recently surged federal resources to Kansas City in an effort to help local officials fight the surge of violent crime in the city. Under the direction of President Trump, the Department of Justice launched Operation Legend days after the death of four-year-old LeGend Taliferro, who was fatally shot while sleeping in his Kansas City home.

President Trump continues to spare no resource in demanding law and order so every American child can grow up free from violence and fear. The recent significant increase in heinous crime is intolerable, and the Trump Administration will continue to dispatch federal agents from the FBI, U.S. Marshal Service, DEA, and ATF to work alongside state and local law enforcement officials in cities around the country to support our police, protect our streets, and save American lives.



 President Donald J. Trump

 Attorney General William Barr,
 Acting Secretary Chad Wolf,
 Acting Director Matt Albence,
 Acting Director Regina Lombardo, 
 Acting Administrator Tim Shea,
 Director Donald Washington,
 Director Christopher Wray,
 Deputy Director David Bowdich, 
 US Attorney John Anderson,
 US Attorney Tim Garrison,
 US Attorney John Lausch,


 Sheriff Manuel Gonzales III, 
 Chief Rick Smith,
 Chief Leo Schmitz,
 Family of Vernado Jones, Jr.
 Family of LeGend Taliferro
 Family of Jacqueline Vigil 


"This bloodshed must end. This bloodshed will end ."
Philly, Minneapolis have seen sharp increase in violent crime. Chicago a mess, he said.

Acting DHS chief is here. So is the FBI's Christopher Wray and AG Barr.

Chicagoans should be able to live insafety, dignity and peace."

A "surge" of federal law enforcement will be going to Chicago. The guilty will be in prison "for many years to come."

"Americans must hold their city leaders accountable."

"Besieged" communities will receive federal support.

Legend TALIFERRO's family members are here.

"We will be fighting every day to save the lives of America's children."

Ms. Vigil's husband and two sons are here."We will never defund thePolice." 


"Help is on its way" President tells the people of Chicago.

Most of guests and speakers aren't wearing face masks. If 32 seated, 30 don't have their faces covered, including the uniformed representatives of law enforcement from NM, MO and IL.

AG Barr: Over 200 fed agents have gone to KC. A "comparable" amount are headed to Chicago. A lesser number — I think he said 35- to New Mexico.
Violent crime is ultimately a problem that will be solved by state and local leadership, AG Barr said.

"We will not rest until justice is delivered for your loved ones," AG Barr told family members. 


After speaking about Portland and Chicago, Acting DHS secretary Chad Wolf saysLeaders in cities should stand with America, acting DHS chief said.

Husband of Jacqueline Vigil tells audience about Nov. 19, 2019, the day his wife was murdered. "It's been eight months since my wife died and there's been no arrests at all."

Mother of Legend TALIFERRO also spoke.

"I'm very proud to stand with you in this struggle," President Trump told family members.

President exits room at 4:29 pm. 


The press conference with President Trump is set to begin in 2 minutes. 


A travel lid for the evening was called at 6:18 p.m. 