Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from a soggy and overcast day at the White House. The sun is trying to break through, but the forecast has other ideas. As usual, White House medical staff checked your pooler's temperature this morning in lower press and swabbed the inside of his nose for a COVID-19 test. No news is good news, we've been told.

So far the President has two events on the schedule.

At 11 am, he is slated to award the Medal of Freedom to Jim Ryun, the legendary runner and former congressman from Kansas.

At 3 pm, he is scheduled to deliver remarks at the signing of an executive order on drug pricing.

President Trump plans to spend the weekend at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey. The Marine One departure from the White House should be at 4:30 pm.

I'll let you know if anything else comes up. 


POTUS entered the Blue Room at 11:23 am with Jim Ryun to loud applause. He'll be awarding the Medal of Freedom to Ryun.

About 30 chairs are set in the oval shaped room spaced about two feet apart. At this point, about two chairs are empty. No A portrait of President Taft mounted high on the wall presides over the room. The wallpaper is a pale yellow and the room is decorated in blue and gold. The windows look out on an expansive view of the South Lawn, the Washington Memorial in the distance, and the Jefferson Memorial on the horizon covered in scaffolding.

President Trump's remarks will be streamed live by CSPAN: 


And by the White House here: 


List of participants provided by Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom to Jim Ryun. This prestigious award is the Nation's highest civilian honor, which may be awarded by the President to individuals who have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors.

Jim Ryun is one of the most accomplished American runners in history and a former United States Representative from Kansas. Despite being cut from every athletic team in junior high, Ryun made the track team at Wichita East High School, where he went on to break the world record for the mile and compete in the 1964 Olympic Games. While at the University of Kansas, Ryun broke several more world records, won the silver medal at the 1968 Mexico City Games, and competed in the

1972 Munich Games. Among many other accolades, he was named ABC Wide World of Sports Athlete of the Year and earned the James E. Sullivan Amateur Athlete Award. Following his outstanding athletic career, Ryun honorably served his home State of Kansas in the United States Congress from 1996 to 2006. He has since written three books and currently gives motivational speeches around the country.



President Donald J. Trump
 Derek Lyons, 
Tim Pataki, 


Family and Friends of Jim Ryun 


POTUS described Ryun as "a legendary running Olympian" and "an American patriot." He read a long introduction of Ryun's career as an elite runner and his work in Congress. "I wish we had him now" (in Congress), President Trump said.

Ryun's daughter and son also spoke. As his son described Ryun's humility, Ryun sighed deeply. Ryun is speaking now.

About 30 people are in the Blue Room. Your pooler doesn't see anyone in the audience wearing a mask. The press corps and White House staff standing in the wings are in masks.

The links to the streaming video were sent in the earlier report. 


In his remarks, Ryun said he appreciated POTUS being a "full throated champion" of the country. There was loud applause. After Ryun was finished speaking, POTUS put the blue ribboned medal around Ryun's neck.

"You're doing a great job, keep it up. We need four more years," Ryun told President Trump. More applause. "Thank you very much," POTUS said. POTUS left the Blue Room at 11:44 am. 


In case you missed it, the White House added a 1 pm briefing with Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany to today's schedule. 


Lower press just called a lunch lid until 1 pm. 


I asked the White House why I didn't see people in the audience for the medal ceremony wearing masks. "Everyone was tested" (for COVID-19), said White House spokesman Judd Deere.

Also, I'm passing along this information about Ivanka Trump's meetings in Colorado today. It comes from a White House official. The official refused to give a reason for this read out being on background.

On Background from a White House Official:
This morning at 8:30AM MDT/10:30AM EDT, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump will join Senator Cory Gardner, Dr. Laurie Todd Smith with the Department of Labor, Lynn Johnson with the Department of Health and Human Services, and others for a tour and roundtable at Bright Beginnings Learning Center in Greenwood Village, CO. Following a tour of the center, they will participate in a discussion with the head of the facility, parents, care providers and local stakeholders on the important need to reopen child care centers for working families and best practices to ensure a healthy and safe return for all children and workers. This event will highlight Administration priorities of providing families with access to affordable and high-quality childcare, while also highlighting the need for Congressional action in the coming weeks to ensure continued operations and expanded access for parents.

CHILD CARE BACKGROUND: President Trump has prioritized the reopening of schools and childcare facilities as an essential step in our country's return to prosperity. The Administration advocated for an additional $3.5 billion in Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) funding during the CARES Act for low-income families and first-responders and also supported the Paycheck Protection Program for small business owners of which many child care faculties are small and women-owned. Advisor Trump has taken up the mantle of the administration's childcare priorities since the earliest days of the administration encouraging the expansion of child care options for families and addressing affordability throughout the system. As part of the administration's work, the President signed into law the largest ever expansion of the CCDBG to states from $3.9 to 5.8 billion and doubled the Child Tax Credit (CTC) from $1,000 to $2,000 per child. In tax year 2019, nearly 40 million families benefitted fromthe CTC, receiving an average benefit of $2,200 – totaling credits of $88 billion. 


We got a 2 minute warning.

This is being broadcast and streamed live. Here's the CSPAN link:



Pool is in the South Court Auditorium of the EEOB where POTUS was scheduled to deliver remarks and sign executive orders on drug prices at 3 pm. The event is running late.

Cell service is poor in the auditorium. Your pooler will send any reports when possible.

The remarks will be live streamed on the White House website and on CSPAN: 


POTUS entered the auditorium at 3:44 pm. The event on drug pricing is now under way. President Trump said he was taking "bold, historic" and "very dramatic" action on drug prices. He's signing four "sweeping" actions today, Trump said. Event is live streaming on CSPAN.

Before the event started, White House staffer handed out blue paper masks to attendees who didn't have masks. Almost all attendees are wearing masks except for a few people in the front two rows and the President.

Spotted:Mark Meadows and Marc Short. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis sitting in the front row. Seema Verma. Alex Azar. Rep Matt Gaetz. 


Event is still going. Attendees in the audience are spaced with two seats between each other. Most people, but not all are wearing masks.

POTUS said the actions today would allow for the importation of cheaper drugs.

Epi pens have seen "horrible, horrible increases," Trump said. "We're changing that right now." Insulin: "massive cost savings."
"I'm unrigging the system that is decades old."

He said the changes will eliminate some of the "middlemen" in drug purchases. "The middlemen are making a fortune." "People are just bilking Medicare patients." He said some people are not going to so rich anymore and joked: "I probably see them in Palm Beach."

POTUS said that representatives of drug companies will be at the White House on Tuesday. If "we don't agree to something" he will implement another order designed to ensure Medicare would pay the lowest price on the international market. He said that he would wait on that order until Aug. 24 and would not need it use it if drug

POTUS said there are bills coming on health care and immigration.

Here is information provided by White House spokesman Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will sign Executive Orders on Lowering Drug Prices.



President Donald J. Trump
 Pat Cipollone, 
John Fleming, 
Amy Swonger, 
Theo Merkel, 
Russell Vought, 


Secretary Alex Azar, 
Administrator Seema Verma, 
Dr. Stephen Hahn, 
Adam Boehler, 


Today, President Donald J. Trump will sign Executive Orders on Lowering Drug Prices.



President Donald J. Trump
Pat Cipollone,
John Fleming,
Amy Swonger,
Theo Merkel, 
Russell Vought, 


Secretary Alex Azar,
Administrator Seema Verma,
Dr. Stephen Hahn,
Adam Boehler,


Congressman Matt Gaetz (R-FL)

Ron DeSantis,
José Oliva, 
Paul Anderson, 
Eric Pratt, 
Kathy Rapp,
Brad Roae, 
Jay Leftwich, 
Will Morefield, 
Jen Kiggans,


Paul Madden, 
Andrea Eckles, 
Mary Tipton M.D., 
Amber Colville M.D., 
Christine Saba M.D./Pharm.D., 
Rupali Chadha M.D., 


Holly Thacker M.D., 


POTUS invited a few attendees to speak including Azar and DeSantis. Then he sat at a desk and signed the orders, posed with the signed papers, and handed out pens to people gathered with him.

The event ended at 4:28 pm and POTUS walked out a door between blie curtains on the back of the stage. 


POTUS walked out of the Oval Office at 6:24 pm. He did not stop to take questions from reporters. Also joining POTUS in Marine One: Kushner, Scavino, and John McEntee as well. Marine One doors are closed and it is lifting off at 6:29 pm. Handing off to out of town pool. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Happy Friday - I'll be your print pooler for President Trump's weekend at Bedminster.

After a pushed back departure, POTUS touched down in Marine One at 6:36 p.m.

He exited Marine One at 6:40 p.m. He entered Air Force One at 6:41p.m. He waved and gave some thumbs up to the pool.

The president was accompanied by: Kushner and Scavino.

We'll be wheels up to New Jersey shortly. 


Air Force One was wheels up at 6:52 p.m. We landed at Morristown Municipal Airport at 7:32 p.m.

President Trump emerged from Air Force One at 7:40 p.m. He emerged alone and waved at the pool, boarding Marine One at 7:40. Jared Kushner followed, wearing a windbreaker. Scavino and McEntee were with the group too. Also spotted on the plane: Andrew Giuliani.

Marine One took off at 7:45 p.m. 


The White House passes along the following:

Marine One was wheels down 7:59PM at Trump National Golf Course bedminster.

We have a travel/photo lid.

Have a good night! 