Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I'm your print pooler for the day.
POTUS has just two public events on his schedule for today – a tree planting on the South Lawn at noon in recognition of Earth Day and Arbor Day and the daily coronavirus briefing at 5 p.m.
POTUS tweeted this morning that he would sign his executive order on immigration today, but pool has not been advised if that will be open. Will let you know when we get guidance on that.
From the White House
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Imran Khan, Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The leaders discussed developments in the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and agreed to continue working together on a coordinated response to defeat the virus and minimize its economic impact. The two leaders also discussed regional security and other bilateral issues.
Pool is gathered on the South Lawn for the tree planting ceremony. The ceremony will be live streamed on the White House website, but your poooler will send highlights.
For the record, it's a beautifully sunny afternoon. The temperature is 50 degrees, with a light breeze.
Apologies for the delay in sending this report. Your pooler is having technical issues.
POTUS and the first lady walked out of the Oval Office at 12:05 pm and headed for a stage set up on the South Lawn.
“We're doing something I love to do – plant trees,” POTUS said at the start of the ceremony.
POTUS spoke a few minutes about the importance of Earth Day and Arbor Day. He said the tree they are planting is a maple. The location of the tree is just a few yards from the Oval Office. POTUS noted that years from now many people will admire the tree and wonder who planted it.
POTUS also announced that national parks will reopen soon. He also gave a shout-out to Rep. Kevin McCarthy, who was in the audience.
Vice President Mike Pence spoke for a few minutes and called the new South Lawn addition “a tree of hope.”
Afterward, the president and the first lady walked off the stage, picked up two shovels and threw a couple of shovelfuls of dirt around the base of the tree. The Pences followed and also threw dirt around the tree.
Afterward, POTUS and the first lady chatted for several minutes with the Pences and McCarthy. The pool was unable to hear the conversation. The group then walked back toward the White House, where the conversation continued for a few more minutes just outside the Oval Office door. POTUS re-entered the Oval at 12:29 p.m.
More details from White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a tree planting ceremony in recognition of Earth Day and Arbor Day on the South Lawn of the White House.
The following individuals are expected to attend:
The White House
President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump Vice President Mike Pence
Second Lady Karen Pence
Trump Administration
Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of the Interior
Secretary Sonny Perdue, Department of Agriculture
Administrator Andrew Wheeler, Environmental Protection Agency
Member of Congress
Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Minority Leader
We have a lunch lid until 3 p.m.
Press secretary Kayleigh McEnany spoke briefly to reporters in the White House driveway about the upcoming immigration order. She reiterated the president's tweet from this morning that he is expected to sign it today. She declined to provide details about what is in the order, saying, “I don't want to get ahead of the president.”
McEnany said the order is still being finalized. She also pushed back on reports that a rough draft was put together after president tweeted late Monday night that he would be temporarily suspending immigration into the U.S.
“That absolutely is not the case,” she said. “In fact, I read the draft before the tweet event went out. So this has been in the works for quite some time. We're putting the final touches on it. We do expect to have that today.”
Resending this quote to correct typo in previous report:
“That absolutely is not the case,” McEnany said. “In fact, I read the draft before the tweet even went out. So this has been in the works for quite some time. We're putting the final touches on it. We do expect to have that today.”
>From Judd Deere:
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic. President Trump detailed the unprecedented steps his Administration has taken to fight the coronavirus in the United States and underscored the importance of continuing close cooperation with Australia during the crisis. The two leaders also discussed plans for reopening their respective economies and agreed to remain in close communication on this matter.
>From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Amir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar. The President and the Amir discussed the coronavirus response in the United States and Qatar. The President encouraged the Amir to take steps toward resolving the Gulf rift in order to work together to defeat the virus, minimize its economic impact, and focus on critical regional issues. The President thanked the Amir for his ongoing efforts to achieve peace in Afghanistan. The President and the Amir agreed on the importance of the Taliban reducing violence and continuing discussions on prisoner releases.
POTUS just tweeted that today's coronavirus briefing will begin at 5:45 p.m.
Two-minute warning for start of coronavirus briefing.
Journalists attending the news conference were given the usual temperature check beforehand.
POTUS entered the briefing room at 6:10 p.m. The briefing has begun.
POTUS announced during the coronavirus briefing that he has signed the executive order temporarily suspending immigration into the U.S. He said he signed the document just before coming into the briefing room.
POTUS left the briefing room and the news conference ended at 7:47 p.m.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 7:58 p.m.
Have a good night, everybody.