Pool Reports by 
, 
Judd Deere passes along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Dr. Abiy Ahmed Ali of Ethiopia. The two leaders discussed the global effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. President Trump offered additional assistance for Ethiopia's response efforts, including the provision of US-made ventilators to Ethiopia, and reaffirmed the longstanding support of the United States for the Ethiopian people. President Trump and Prime Minister Abiy agreed that continued cooperation between the United States and Ethiopia would be necessary to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic as well as other challenges faced by the region, including the locust threat in East Africa.
Pool call time has been pushed from 2pm to 5pm. Still no coronavirus task force briefing on the schedule but will let you know if that changes.
Judd Deere sends along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Paul Kagame of Rwanda. The two leaders discussed efforts by the United States and Rwanda to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. President Trump expressed his strong support for the people of Rwanda and offered additional assistance to help save lives. President Trump and President Kagame agreed that the United States and Rwanda would stand together in the fight to defeat the coronavirus.
Travel/photo lid called at 17:11
Have a good one.
Lid report should have been #4. Resuming conventional numbering now.
Judd Deere sends this along:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Klaus Iohannis of Romania. They discussed efforts by the United States and Romania to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen economies. President Trump reaffirmed that the United States is working hard to care for Americans at home while also helping overseas, including in Romania. The two leaders also discussed important bilateral and regional issues. President Trump thanked President Iohannis for being a strong NATO Ally committed to burden sharing.
Judd Deere send along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone for over an hour with 600+ Catholic faith leaders and educators about the value of Catholic education, the problems facing Catholic schools as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and possible policy solutions. The President thanked the participants for educating, inspiring, and equipping 1.7 million young Americans from diverse socio-economic backgrounds at an approximate savings to the taxpayer of $24billion annually. The President remembered from his childhood the tangible and intangible benefits his neighborhood in Queens, NY enjoyed from their local Catholic church and school and offered his commitment to making sure every family can choose the school that is right for their children. Catholic leaders and educators expressed their appreciation for President Trump's strong Pro-Life stance and many bold actions to protect religious liberty, for appointing Conservative judges, and for making forgivable PPP loans accessible for Catholicschools that provide essential services to minority and low-income families across our Nation. The President expressed his commitment to exploring all possible solutions to problems Catholic schools are facing as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The following individuals participated on the call:
The White House
President Donald J. Trump
Kellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor
Joe Grogan, Assistant to the President and Director for Domestic Policy
Jenny Korn, Deputy Assistant to the President, Deputy Director White House Office of Public Liaison 
Trump Administration
Secretary Betsy DeVos, Department of Education
Secretary Ben Carson, Department of Housing and Urban Development
External Participants
Over 600 Catholic faith leaders, educators and stakeholders