Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from Morristown Municipal Airport in New Jersey.
The pool is assembled on the tarmac waiting for President Trump, who was scheduled to leave Bedminster at 5 PM. We are awaiting word that he has left. On his arrival, he will be flying back to Washington DC.
The White House has not provided any information on how the president has spent his birthday. Pool traveled separately to the airport and has not yet seen Trump today.
President Trump has left Bedminster en route to the Morristown airport. It is about a 15 minute helicopter ride. On his arrival, he will be flying back to Washington DC. He is on the smaller AF1 today.
Marine One landed at Morristown Municipal Airport at 5:28 PM. President Trump exited shortly after, wearing a blue suit and striped tie.
With him were Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner and Dan Scavino. The White House said Deputy Staff Secretary Catherine Keller was also traveling.
He did not stop to speak to pool, but gave a fist pump from top of steps and entered the plane.
Pool boarding now. We should be wheels up shortly en route to Washington, DC. The flight is just under an hour long.
Air Force One was wheels down at Andrews Air Force Base at 6:20 PM. It was an uneventful flight with no visitors to the press cabin.
The president exited the plane at 6:29 PM and walked to Marine One. He did not stop to talk to the press.
Marine One was wheels up for the White House at 6:35 PM.
Thanks to my co-pooler Zach Montague. Handing off to the in-town pool now.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
On this beautiful late-Spring evening, the pool is assembling at 6:28 p.m. to go to the South Lawn for Marine One arrival.
Wheels down at 6:43.. At 6:45, president down the steps and took a solo walk across the grass lawn to the Residence. Gave three waves and a thumbs up to the pool but did not answer shouted questions about Seattle, birthday presents and his health.
Accompanied by, among a handful of others,Jared Kushner and Dan Scavino.
Travel/photo lid declared at 6:52.