Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a quiet White House. The president does not have any public events on his schedule today, but has a 2 p.m. intel briefing and 4 p.m. call with faith leaders on the economy. The coronavirus task force briefing begins at 5 p.m. I'll keep you posted on any changes. Let me know if you have any questions. Thanks!
2:00PM         THE PRESIDENT receives his intelligence briefing
Oval Office
Closed Press
4:00PM        THE PRESIDENT hosts a phone call with faith leaders on the great American economic revival
Oval Office
Closed Press
5:00PM        Members of the Coronavirus Task Force hold a press briefing
James S. Brady Briefing Room
On Camera
Lunch called lid until 2:30 p.m.
According to President Trump's Twitter account and an official change to the White House schedule, the coronavirus task force briefing will begin at 6 p.m. --
@realDonaldTrump: White House news conference today at 6:00 P.M. Eastern. Thank you!
President Trump entered the briefing room at 6:21pm followed by Vice President Pence.
Also here in the briefing room are Ag Sec. Perdue, CMS Administrator Verma, Adm. Giroir, CDC's Dr. Redfield, Dr. Birx, and Dr. Fauci.
As always, a livestream is available online and I'll send out any color from the room that might not be in eyeshot.
On the two TV screens behind the podium are slides that read “3,780,000+ Tests Completed as of April 16, 2020.”
Thank you to those who sent questions. I'll try my best!
Have a good Friday night (safe and socially distanced at home of course).
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with leaders from multiple faiths and expressed his eagerness to get churches, synagogues, mosques and all houses of worship back open as soon possible. The President spent more than an hour speaking with them and the conversation included comments about the many ways President Trump has delivered on his promise to fight for the freedoms and values of religious Americans. The Faith leaders explained the innovative ways they have continued worshiping, ministering, and caring for their fellow Americans while also practicing social distancing, and they discussed their plans for the future as they follow the new guidelines announced yesterday. The President mentioned his memories as a young child attending Billy Graham's service at Yankee Stadium, and acknowledged that while he has enjoyed watching services online from the White House, he told the faith leaders it is important for people to soon be able to once again come together, pray, and worship.
Pastor Paula White, 
Pastor Ronnie Floyd,
Cardinal Timothy Dolan, 
Eric Fingerhut, 
Anwar Khan, 
Archbishop Jose Gomez, 
Apostle Guillermo Maldonado, 
Pastor Jentezen Franklin, 
Dr. Doug Clay, 
Pastor John Jenkins,
Edgar Sandoval,
Cissie Graham Lynch,
Pastor Jack Graham,
Pastor Randy Barton, 
John Pinna, 
Reverend Sammy Rodriguez, 
Pastor Bill Winston,
Pastor Chris Hodges, 
Reverend Tony Perkins, 
Pastor Greg Laurie,
Pastor Robert Jeffress, 
Pastor Ralph Sexton,
Pastor Pasqual Urrabazo, 
Bishop Harry Jackson, 
Carl Anderson, 
Dr. Tim Clinton,
Elder Jack Gerard,
Rabbi Marvin Hier,
Rabbi Abba Cohen,
Chaplain (COL) Dawud Agbere,
Pastor Jim Dykes,