Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the warm and sunny White House.
Your print pooler has completed her COVID-19 test along with the rest of the pool.
On the schedule today, President Trump has two closed press events: at 1 PM he will have lunch with the vice president and at 3 PM he will participate in a roundtable with law enforcement.
Also, added to the daily guidance this morning was a press briefing with Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany at 2 PM in the briefing room. If you have questions for the briefing, feel free to send them along and I will do my best to get answers.
As always, I will share updates throughout the day.
Lunch lid until 2 PM.
2 PM is when Press Secretary McEnany's briefing is scheduled to start. I will send details that may not be seen on camera, but not full reports since the event will be live streamed. You can watch here: 
A two minute warning until the press briefing starts was announced.
At 2:13 PM, Press Secretary McEnany entered the briefing room and started the press briefing. She's starting things off with comments on the jobs report.
Press Secretary McEnany concluded the briefing at about 2:40 p.m. In case it was not viewable on camera, TV screens adjacent to the podium showed images of police officers helping civilians in various scenarios as McEnany wrapped up the briefing by highlighting positive stories of police work.
>From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. President Trump and President Erdogan discussed the latest efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen the United States and Turkey. The two leaders also discussed critical bilateral and regional issues, including Libya, Syria, and the Eastern Mediterranean.
Pool has been called to gather at the palm room doors. President Trump's round table with law enforcement was slated to begin at 3 PM. We have no further directions at this time.
Pool is now in the state dining room for the law enforcement round table.
Trump made short comments That he does not support defunding the police.
More coming....
From the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a roundtable discussion with state, federal, and local law enforcement officials on police and community relations.
President Donald J. Trump
Mike Pence, 
Mark Meadows, 
Jared Kushner, 
Dan Scavino, 
Brooke Rollins, 
Tim Pataki, 
Doug Hoelscher, 
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Attorney General William Barr, 
Chief Steven Casstevens, 
Pat Yoes, 
Sheriff Tony Childress, 
Ashley Moody, 
Daniel Cameron, 
Sergeant Rob Pride, 
The pool was shuffled out of the round table in the State Dining Room at 3:45 p.m. President Trump took no press questions.
President Trump spoke a few words, then each attendee gave comments and then Trump made a few closing remarks.
"We won't be defunding our police. We won't be dismantling our police," Trump said.
He spoke overwhelmingly positively about the work of law enforcement, calling them the "finest law enforcement anywhere in the world" but acknowledged generally that plenty of things have happened that shouldn't have happened.
Attorney General Barr said law enforcement understands that African Americans have "distrust" for police and U.S. law did not provide equal protection to African Americans until the 1960s, he said. He said he is hearing lots of interest from police leaders on clarifying the standards and training on use of force and "we look forward to working with you to get that done."
More coming….
"This has been a very strong year for less crime."
"There's a reason for less crime. It's because we have great law enforcement. I'm very proud of that. There won't be defunding. There won't be dismantling of our police. There's not going to be any disbanding of our police. Our police have been letting us live in peace and we want to make sure we don't have any bad actors in there and sometimes we'll see some horrible things like we witnessed recently but I say 99.9 – let's go with 99 % of them – great, great people and they've done jobs that are record setting."
 "We're here to listen."
"My uncle was a police officer in Chicago for 25 years and I grew up with my three brothers and sisters with great memories of visiting my grandparents in Chicago and visiting my uncle… seeing him walk out the door and put his life on the line to protect the city."
"I will promise you here that the president and the administration is always going to stand with the men and women who serve and at great risk and great sacrifice to protect our communities."
He said he is "very grateful" to have a "conversation about how we can improve."
"We've always been in the business of making a more perfect union."
After "tragedy" almost two weeks ago, they want to discuss "how we can improve" but "improve in a way that builds on that foundations – really the finest men and women in our country."
 "What makes me very optimistic today is that the law enforcement leaders that we deal with, and you all know this, no one is more committed to reforming the criminal justice system and the profession of policing today."
Noted that the administration's commission has been looking at these issues already.
"I know that there is a lot of interest from police leaders for clarity and guidance on the use of force… making sure the standards are out there, making sure they are trained and making sure they are adhered to. We're looking forward to working with you to get that done. The time for waiting is over. It's now incumbent on us to bring good out of bad."
"Finally just let me say that the other aspect of this is the rule of law and the need for law and order."
"It's the foundation of civilization."
"It is our responsibility to make sure that our country is ruled by law and not by violence."
emphasized that the Trump administration and law enforcement worked together on criminal justice issues "to make our communities safer and make our system more fair" previously. He said their work results in "progress and policies."
"There are a lot of people in this country who are feeling differently pain," he said.
>From Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. The President and the Secretary General discussed close cooperation between NATO allies on defeating the coronavirus pandemic and strengthening our resilience. The two leaders also discussed progress on NATO increasing its role in counterterrorism and stabilization efforts in the Middle East, as well as the latest developments in Afghanistan. The President and the Secretary General agreed that the Taliban must reduce violence and all parties should move swiftly to begin intra-Afghan negotiations toward a political settlement.
The law enforcement round table participants were seated at tables arranged in large circle in the state dining room with some space between the participants. No one wore masks.
Here are some of the remarks from other participants:
Sheriff Tony Childress of Livingston County, IL said his force's "ideology" is "being a friend of the community."
"Some of the things we feel in Livingston County will be very important is mandatory de-escalation training for officers, prohibition of all physical restraint maneuvers on or above the neck, any physical acts that reflect the flow of blood or oxygen to the brain, requiring all officers to render medical aid to all people and requiring officers to intervene when physical forces are being applied to either stop or attempt forces that are being inappropriately applied."
"We look forward to working with you to hopefully getting legislation involved in making these things true and making them law."
KY Attorney General Daniel Cameron spoke last and Trump introduced him as a "superstar" in the making.
Cameron said they have a responsibility to look for ways "to do it better."
"We as General Barr said cannot allow for chaos in our streets. We can allow for peaceful protests. We cannot allow for chaos. We cannot allow for violence.
Ja'Ron Smith, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of American Innovation, said "When I saw what happened with George Floyd it really made my heart sunk. It hit me to my core, as well as a lot of other lives that have been lost."
"As an African American I've lived in southeast DC and I've lived in a paradox where my wife is sometimes scared to go on the streets by herself and in the same vein, as an individual, I've also had the fear of living in a certain neighborhood or driving certain types of cars as an African American just because of my relationship with the police. There are a lot of African American males across the country that have stories that they can share."
"But law enforcement is there to kind of thread the needle and help us and protect us and not to demonize."
"We can't let a few bad apples represent something that is the core of everything we do." He said they look forward to partnering with law enforcement to find solutions.
We got a travel/photo lid at 5:15 PM.
Have a safe night everyone.