Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Morning from your pooler,
Temperature has been checked and we're good to go.
Pool is gathering at 11:20 a.m. for POTUS' first event scheduled for 11:30a.m.
Stay tuned for updates...
Pool initially gathered at 11:20a.m. but after a few minutes we were directed to go back to the Briefing Room to wait again. At 11:48am we were called back and temperatures checked again. Will send another update once we're in room and there's something to report.
Hi All...
Apologies, I seem to be having technical difficulties with my work e-mail. I thought these pool reports were sent way sooner. They show up in my sent folder, but apparently they haven't been received. Trying again from a different e-mail address....
Passing along from Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere
Today, President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence will meet with recovered COVID-19 patients, family members of patients, and those directly affected by COVID-19 to hear accounts of treatments, quarantines, and recoveries.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Carl Goldman, 
Jeri Seratti Goldman, 
Karen Whitsett,
Jason Whitsett, 
David Mangan, 
Rachel Mangan,
Darshin Patel, 
Mark Campbell, 
Meeting still going on, some odds and ends>>
Pool ushered into cabinet room at 12pm. Survivors were seated around the table. Pence was at POTUS' side.
***
Michigan State Rep. Karen Whitsett was seated to Trump's left. The Democrat has previous lauded Trump's call for Anti-Malaria drug as a treatment.
Trump: “You have a beautiful presence”
“She's a good representative”
Whitsett said her condition “went from 0 to 100.”
“I was afraid for my life.”
Trump: So you thought you were going to die?
Whitsett: I thought I was going to die.
Trump later said he wouldn't ask who she would vote for but “I don't see her voting for Sleepy Joe Biden.”
He later said he would connect her to WH physician to discuss her pre-existing Lyme Disease.
***
Carl Goldman of California, Diamond Princess Cruise Survivor recounted his experience. He was joined by his wife.
“It was like we were on a floating petri dish.”
Trump asked the couples if he believed experience brought them together. The Whitsett and Mangans nodded in agreement.
**
Darshin Patel of California said he was 34.
Trump: “Did you ever think you were going to die?”
Patel said he felt anxiety.
“I never felt this bad before.”
**Trump On Anti-Malaria pills
“What have you got to lose?”
“I actually haven't heard a bad story
“The word is out the people get it. “These people don't get it (points to media)
**
*David Mangan and Rachel Mangan of Hot Springs, Arkansas
Rachel: Said in her second week she felt shortness of breath. Said it took her over a month to recover and test negative.
Trump asked if she feels 100 percent. She replied: “I would say 85”
Trump jokingly said: “Stay away...keep her away.”
**
Trump said that participant Mark Campbell of Michigan is a former football player who knows Tom Brady. Campbell played with Brady in college in Michigan, Trump says.
Trump asks how he thinks Brady will do with Tampa Bay: “I think he'll do great.”
Trump continues to talk about Tom Brady's college career.
Campbell said he was a tight end.
Trump after noting Campbell's height: “This little bug knocked the hell out of you?”
Campbell said he was driving in North Michigan, touched a gasoline pump, it's where he thinks he caught COVID-19.
“When you're in the hospital...it's lonely...”
Had a temp of 102.6. Went through drive through testing.
“The athlete in me...it kinda worked against me here...” said he should've gone to hospital sooner instead of waiting it out at home.
Trump asked if he took “the Hydroxy”
Campbell said he started feeling better.
Trump asked why he asked for Hydroxy
Campbell said he told doctors: “I just said the malaria drug” and they prescribed treatment.
**
Trump wrapping up:
“The American public has been great.“
Pence thanks survivors for sharing stories: “It truly gives hope to families”
LUNCH LID just called until 2pm
Pool escorted out of meeting at 12:43pm
Just before leaving
POTUS sarcastically asked Reuters' Jeff Mason “Am I allowed to take Karen over to talk to the White House Doctor” to discuss the state rep's Lyme Disease. Questioned if there would be talk of “impeachment” for connecting her to doctor.
Mason: “I can't advise you on that sir.”
Trump in final remarks said: “What I do is going to be done in conjunction with governors.”
Did not take shouted questions about Cuomo's remarks.
Figueroa, LauraTue 4/14/2020 1:04 PMHi All,
Larry Kudlow gaggled in the driveway while pool reporters were holding for Trump. Here is a link to C-SPAN video of his remarks.
>
Larry Kudlow Comments to Reporters at the White House
National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow fields questions from reporters in the White House driveway. He says he has no regrets saying last month that the coronavirus was under control.
Pool Called just before 3:30pm...
In the room several hospital CEOs. Will get full list...
Administrator Seema Verna, Rear Adm. Polowcyzk, Jared Kushner
POTUS: “Governors raised fears that people who needed ventilators would not get ventilators” Said ventilator production is up.
More TK
From WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence will meet with healthcare executives and senior administration officials to discuss the Dynamic Ventilator Reserve.
President Donald J. Trump
Jared Kushner, 
Adam Boehler,
Rear Admiral John Polowczyk, 
COL Pat Work, 
Blair Childs,
David Dill, 
Dr. Fritz Francois, 
Sam Hazen, 
M. Michelle Hood,
Joseph Impicciche, 
Byron Jobe, 
Ed Jones, 
Chip Kahn, 
Dr. Tomislav Mihaljevic, 
Mikelle Moore, 
Rick Pollack,
Warner Thomas, 
Pool was escorted out of Cabinet Room at 3:43p.m. POTUS took no questions.
He started meeting with opening remarks then called on the healthcare executives to introduce themselves.
POTUS at start of meeting: "We're going to have a big discussion today having to do with costs and hospitals and obviously how it relates to the hidden enemy. I look forward to discussing our new partnership to establish the dynamic ventilator reserve."
MORE TK
More Comments from POTUS >>
"When the virus struck our nation, governors raised fears that people who needed ventilators would not get the ventilators. ...we're preparing ventilator capacity for any and all scenarios. Initiatives like the dynamic ventilator reserve will help us to achieve that goal. We need ventilators but now we're pretty well stocked."
"Under the Defense Production Act the United States will produce or require more than 32,000 ventilators by the end of Mayo, and...listen to this one, 150,000 ventilators by the end of the year. So we're going to have more ventilators by the end of the year that we've ever even thought possible."
Said U.S. is receiving calls from Italy, France and Spain about ventilators.
POTUS later asked Rick Pollack of the American Hospital Association about ventilators:
POTUS: "We're also building a very high quality ventilator, because you have to make a decision, and I was told it makes a big difference the level of quality of ventilator, what is it? What is the difference? You find it makes a big difference? They're obviously more expensive. More detail, harder to build, but I hear they are more effective quite a bit...do you all consider that to be correct?
RICK Pollack said "there's a lot of different versions of them."
Just flagging POTUS' tweet that the briefing will start at 5:45pm.
Reporters are already in position in the Rose Garden, where it's 53 degrees and cloudy.
***
Also as a housekeeping note, the list of healthcare executives forwarded from WH misidentified an organization. Please see correction below >>
The organization for Chip Kahn should be the Federation of American Hospitals.
Per: Sean Brown, Vice President, Communications
Federation of American Hospitals
Travel photo lid called at 7:33pm.
>From WH's Judd Deere:
“Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. President Trump and President Macron discussed efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen world economies. The two leaders also discussed the upcoming teleconference with G7 Leaders, as well as critical regional and bilateral issues.”Laura Figueroa