Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'll be your pooler today on this sunny Monday. There are no further updates to the schedule outside of the 2:00 pm press briefing with Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany.
I'll update you if anything changes. As usual, send questions for the briefing and I'll try to get them in at today's briefing.
Your pooler has asked for a readout of today's governors teleconference and will let you know if I receive one.
Sent to the pool by Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea. The two leaders discussed a range of economic and national security issues, including the coronavirus pandemic and restoring the strength of the global economy. President Trump and President Moon also discussed progress toward convening the G7 later this year.
White House called a lunch lid at 1:31 pm until 2:00 pm
You can follow along at the White House stream or here:
Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany ended the briefing at 2:39 pm after starting about 17 minutes late. She did not take questions from your pooler.
Sent to the pool by Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. President Trump and President Putin discussed the latest efforts to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and reopen global economies. President Trump conveyed that the United States is working hard to care for Americans at home and provide assistance to other countries in need, including the donation of 200 ventilators to the Russian people. President Trump also reiterated the need for effective arms control. Additionally, the two leaders discussed progress toward convening the G7.
Pool was called to the Palm Room doors at 6:03 pm
Your pooler is in her seat and awaiting POTUS who's scheduled to deliver remarks in the Rose Garden at 6:15.
POTUS hasn't appeared yet but there are a series of loud booms in the background as your pooler awaits.
POTUS took the podium at 6:44 and declares he's mobilizing all federal resources and recommends to all governors they deploy the national guard to their states.
"As we speak, I am dispatching thousands and thousands of heavily armed soldiers military personnel and law enforcement officers to stop the rioting looting vandals federalism assaults..."
POTUS left at 6:50pm and pool was asked to quickly move to the briefing room for an announcement.
Noted before he left, POTUS said "now I'm going to pay my respects to a very, very special place"
Booming sounds have stopped for now but there are helicopter sounds.
POTUS exited the White House at the north portico entrance at 7:01pm
POTUS is walking past police towards Lafayette Park. Protesters have been cleared and he's walking towards St. John's Church that was vandalized last night. Remnants of gas has your pooler and other coughing and choking
POTUS is holding a bible in front of the boarded up St. John's church. He's joined by Barr, Meadows, McEnany and others for a photo shoot. "Greatest country in the world." And we're going to keep it safe."
POTUS returned to the White House at 7:18 pm after walking back from St. John's Church. On his way back, he walked through the entrance of the White House lined with secret service officers still in riot gear. POTUS stopped and gave two fist pumps to the photographers/reporters standing behind the limited pool.
He did not take questions.
White House called a photo/travel lid at 7:37 pm.
Bye, folks
Here's a recap of POTUS's unexpected walk to St. John's Church from the White House on Monday.
At 7:01 pm, POTUS left the White House heading towards the St. John's Church. POTUS walked along the winding driveway of the north lawn and then exited the White House gates onto Lafayette Park and on then onto H St. which had been filled with protesters less than an hour earlier.
Remnants of the gas deployed earlier irritated your pooler and others in the limited pool to the point some were coughing. H St. was littered with trash punctuated by newly boarded-up and graffitied buildings.
POTUS, stood in front of St. John's Church holding a bible. His daughter, Ivanka Trump, White House advisors Jared Kushner and Hope Hicks, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, Attorney General Bill Barr, Robert O'Brien and others stood to his right looking on. Ivanka Trump wore a black mask, as recommended by the WH COVID-19 experts, while others went maskless it appeared. POTUS held a large-ish bible in one hand and then in both hands for his one-man photo op. He was then joined by Barr, Meadows, O'Brien, and White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany for more photos.
He said the US was the "greatest country in the world" and "we're going to keep it that way."
The group walked back toward the White House after the short photoshoot virtually along the same path. As he neared the gates, the entourage of White House staff and officials fell back while the president enjoyed a lone walk towards the White House flanked by secret service officers in riot gear.
POTUS stopped for a brief moment to give a double fist pump to the crew of photogs and reporters behind the limited pool.
He entered the White House at 7:18 pm.