Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where it's sprinkling and 64 degrees. Pool is gathered for departure for first event. Religion is focus of the day - first stop, per WH schedule, a short visit by POTUS and FLOTUS to the Saint John Paul II National Shrine in northeast DC.
At 12:15 pm, schedule has POTUS signing an Executive Order to Advance International Religious Freedom. Closed press, so far.
2:30 intelligence briefing
4 pm meeting with HHS secretary
>From Judd Deere:
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia. President Trump thanked Prime Minister Morrison for his leadership in calling for an independent investigation of the World Health Organization's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. The two leaders also discussed issues of mutual concern including Hong Kong, strengthening the global economy, and the G7 Summit.
Motorcade departed WH at 11:14 am, en route the Saint John Paul II National Shrine in Northeast Washington. Potus and FLOTUS sighted briefly as they got into the Beast. FLOTUS wearing black sleeveless dress.
Motorcade arrived at the Saint John Paul II National Shrine at 11:29 am. Many onlookers along the way. Some one-fingered salutes along NY Ave and up North Capitol Street.
Some Signs:
United we Stand, Divided we Fall
You Suck
Black Lives Matter
Dump Trump
Bunker bitch
F*** Trump
Big crowd, maybe 200 people, on lawn at Catholic U. Lots of rude gestures and signs.
Pool is awaiting start of wreath laying at Statue of Saint John Paul II, the late Pope. Wreath is prepositioned in front.
Also waiting: Kellyanne Conway, Larry Kudlow, Kayleigh McEnany, Alyssa Farah. None are wearing masks. Some Secret Service personnel are wearing masks.
Info from WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will visit the Saint John Paul II National Shrine and will lay a ceremonial wreath and observe a moment of remembrance under the Statue of Saint John Paul II. The President and First Lady will also visit the Luminous Mysteries Chapel, John Paul II Blood Relic, and the Madonna Icon.
President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump
Max Nogier, Deputy Director of the Saint John Paul II National Shrine
Potus and FLOTUS walked out of the shrine building toward the statue and posed for cameras at 11:47 am. Then they turned toward the statue, hands clasped in front of themselves. They walked toward the wreath and stood a few moments, then backed up and turned toward us. At 11:49, they walked back into building. No remarks.
Motorcade departed Saint JPII Shrine at 12:01 pm.
Motorcade arrived WH at 12:14 pm. Crowds waving signs, standing on lawn at Catholic U were still there as we departed shrine neighborhood.
Same signs and gestures as before. Also noticed: "We Stand Together"
Should have mentioned before, Potus is wearing his usual navy blue suit, white shirt, red tie.
After exiting motorcade, first couple were seen entering the Oval Office together at 12:17.
Lunch lid called until 2:30 pm.
Also, I'm told that Kellyanne Conway said on Fox News earlier this afternoon that she watched POTUS sign the Executive Order to Advance International Religious Freedom.
from Judd Deere:
Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Jair Bolsonaro of the Federative Republic of Brazil. President Trump discussed the upcoming G7 Summit. The leaders agreed that the free flow of commerce between the United States and Brazil is an economic priority for both countries. In their third call since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, President Trump and President Bolsonaro also expressed their mutual appreciation for the longstanding collaboration on health issues between the two countries, including the delivery of 2 million doses of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) by the United States to the people of Brazil, a commitment by the United States to provide Brazil 1,000 ventilators, and a joint research effort to help further evaluate the safety and efficacy of HCQ for both prophylaxis and the early treatment of the coronavirus. President Trump thanked President Bolsonaro for his partnership in helping to protect the citizens of both the United States and Brazil.
Your pooler missed it, but Patsy Widakuswara of VOA took part in a gaggle with Kellyanne Conway a little while ago. Her summary is below, and she notes that C-SPAN has video of the gaggle. Thank you, Patsy!
* Trump did not make the decision on how to secure his movement to St John's yesterday. The authorities made them and already decided to expand the retreat.
* Photo op? - you're looking in somebody's heart and second guessing their intention... just because a picture was taken? Called it "sesame street word of the day"
* Said EO on international religious freedom has been signed.
* Said "it's absolutely the case that there's institutional racism" and inequality for all people in this country but would not say whether Trump believes institutional racism exists.
* Phase 4 possible but would not clarify.
* No decision on RNC but POTUS wants to keep it in Charlotte.
* What was done to Floyd was murder.
* No decision on Insurrection Act and nobody wants to get to that point where it's necessary. Dismissed questions on the tone of Trump's remarks as "opinion".
* Trump Putin call discussed many issues not just G7 but would not say who initiated.
C-Span has video of the gaggle.
At 5:26 pm, after a quiet afternoon, we have a travel/photo lid.
Stay safe,
from Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India. The two leaders discussed the G7, the COVID-19 response, and regional security issues. The President was happy to announce that the United States would be ready to ship the first tranche of 100 donated ventilators to India next week.