Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House, where it is in the low 70s and drizzly.
Your pooler received a temperature check outside the front gate and a COVID-19 test in lower press.
The president does not have any public events on his schedule; I will let you know if this changes.
There is a briefing at 2 p.m. with Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany that you will be able to watch on the CSPAN website or WH live-stream.
Some folks have inquired about the social media EO, timing, etc.
So far there are no changes to schedule and guidance on the EO is still "TBD," according to press shop.
To be clear, the WH press shop did not say the EO itself is TBD, it said the timing on signing the EO is TBD
[
]
You can follow along at WH live-stream or here:
Four aides along the wall are wearing masks
Press secretary said the hope is to do EO about social media policy later this afternoon
Among the topics addressed:
George Floyd's death in Minn. and review by AG Barr
Twitter's policies
100,000 U.S. deaths from the coronavirus
Fact-checking of President Trump and the media
Trump's review of the George Floyd video
The potential for voter fraud on mail-in ballots, when mail-in voting is justified
Press secretary said she will ask when President Trump will complete his annual physical
The use of hydroxychloroquine in relation to COVID-19
[
]
President in Oval for briefing on hurricane season
Briefers say Atlantic Ocean is worry;
Expect three to six major hurricanes, above average season
President notes 'slightly enhanced' hurricane season predicted
"That's just what we want," Trump jokes
FEMA chief Gaynor says his agency is in good shape due to enhanced funding amid Covid crisis
Trump notes that 'a lot of money went to Puerto Rico" last year
Pence is here, as is Wilbur Ross
Pence notes challenge of dealing with storms and Covid; says states will deal 'safely and responsibly' with hurricanes
"bottomline is we're ready," pence says
Trump pivots to wall, says up to about 200 miles, doing well with Mexico
'We are not letting people into our country'
Says will allow US citizens back from Brazil despite Covid travel ban
More tk
Today, President Donald J. Trump will receive a briefing on the 2020 Hurricane Season in the Oval Office
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Mark Meadows, 
Robert O'Brien, 
Kristan Nevins, 
Dr. Kelvin Droegemeier, 
Dr. Julia Nesheiwat, 
Secretary Wilbur Ross, 
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf,
Administrator Pete Gaynor, 
Dr. Neil Jacobs, 
Trump says US will complete 400 miles of southern border wall before end of this yearr
Trump will do EO signing event in 20-30 minutes today on social media topic
Says there will be presser on China tomorrow
"So you think we can have a slightly enhanced hurricane season? That's just what we want, that's just what we want," Mr. Trump said to FEMA officials.
"Are we ready?" Trump asked FEMA chief Pete Gaynor.
"FEMA is always, ready sir," Mr. Gaynor said.
Gaynor said his agency is already facing a "historic" disaster season between COVID-19, tornadoes and flooding
He says they typically start hurricane season with $40B in disaster-relief funding; today they have just shy of $80B
"That's the result of Congress appropriating nearly $40 billion for COVID-19, so we're in a really great place when it comes to funding, personnel and supplies," Mr. Gaynor said.
"We're setting records on the border in terms of low numbers, very few people are getting in and when they are we will be taking them immediately out," Trump said.
"We're using emergency powers," he said.
"Mexico is having a very, very hard time, as you know, with COVID, especially along the border, Tijuana and various places along the border," Trump said.
"Fortunately we have brand-new wall along there, and the wall is saving us," Trump said.
Plans to have 400 miles of border wall by end of the year, and eyes 500 miles by early next year
Trump is at his desk in Oval for EO signing ...Bill Barr is here
"We're here today to defend free speech from one of the greatest dangers," referring to tech 'monopoly'
Says "They've had unchecked power" to censor and restrict human interaction
"We cant allow that to happen"
He says these tech companies have "points of view"
Sees bipartisanship, says Democrats are saying 'this is about time something is done'
Says Twitter is acting as an editor 'with a viewpoint'
Complains about fact check, calls it 'political activism'
Says tech platforms have more reach than newspapers and other media
Notes Twitter et al get liability shield based on neutral platform
EO would
-Looks to regulate Section 230 to remove liability shield if companies act to censure or edit content
-Says AG Barr will work with states on own regs
- will Develop policies to make sure tax dollars don't go to companies that suppress free speech
Trump predicts lawsuit, wants legislation though
'We're fed up with it'
Asked why not delete his account, Trump says:
'The news is fake'
'If we had fair press in this country I would do that in a heartbeat'
Barr:
Barr says tech companies are acting as 'publishers' after amassing huge power
Says EO would return section 230 to intended scope
Will draft legislation for Congress
'A bit of a bait and switch that's occurred in our society"
Referring to networks that were supposed to be free forums, but now flexing power
Pool sent out before signing but aide said signing it 'right now' after questions from photogs
Trump says he will announce more on China tomorrow when asked if US will remain in trade deal
All Trump here:
(Complains about mail-in voting):
?'There's ballot harvesting'
'You dont think they rip them put of mailboxes?'
'They can even print ballots'
Shut down Twitter?
Suggests he would do it if lawyers found way, tho legal hurdles are there:'I'd have to go through a legal process'
On EO challenge:
'I guess it's going to be challenged in court, but what isn't?'
Spoke to Modi:
'He's not in a good mood' as to what's going on with China at border
Hasn't spoken to family of George Floyd, calls video 'shocking'
Judd Deere in press office confirms that Trump did, indeed, sign the EO
As noted in the previous report, the pool engaged in Q&A with Trump and Barr and was ushered out before pen hit paper
as always, check against video or transcript:
>From Trump:
"We're here today to defend free speech from one of the greatest dangers it has faced in American history, frankly, and you know what's going on as well as anybody. It's not good," Trump said.
"A small handful of powerful social media monopolies controls a vast portion of all public and private communication in the United States and we know what they are, we don't have to name them, we're going to give you a complete listing."
"They've had unchecked power to censure, restrict, edit, shape, hide, alter virtually any form of communication between private citizens or large public audiences," Mr. Trump said.
"There's no precedent in American history for so small a number of corporations to control so large a sphere of human interaction."
"We can't let this continue to happen, it's very, very unfair and you look at the statistics and you look at what is going on and I think everybody would very much agree with that. Including Democrats, by the way. I saw quite a few Democrats are saying this is about time something is done, so let's see if they keep that decision after they hear that we agree with them."
Says Twitter is making "editorial decisions."
"They're editorial decisions. In those moments, Twitter ceases to be a neutral public platform, they become an editor with a viewpoint. I think we can say that about others also, whether you're looking at Google, whether you're looking at Facebook and perhaps others."
"Imagine if your phone company silenced or edited your conversations. Social media companies have vastly more power and more reach than any phone company in the United States."
The White House Press Office says it will release the EO ASAP.
You can find full event here: 
(More quotes, and bullet points with quotes on what EO does)
"Currently, social media giants like Twitter receive an unprecedented liability shield based on the theory that they're a neutral platform, which they're not."
• "My executive order calls for new regulations under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act to make it that social media companies that engage in censoring or any political conduct will not be able to keep their liability shield, that's a big deal."
"They have a shield, they're not gonna have a shield."
• He says order instructs Federal Trade Commission to prohibit social media companies from engaging in "any deceptive acts or practices affected Commerce"
• Directing AG Barr to work "cooperatively with the states" to "enforce their own laws against such deceptive business practices"
"The states have broad and powerful authority to regulate in this arena and they'll be doing it also. We encourage them to do it if they see exactly as we've been seeing. What they're doing is tantamount to monopoly you could say, it's tantamount to taking over the airwaves. Can't let it happen, otherwise we're not going to have a democracy. We're not going to have anything to do with a republic."
• Directs administration to develop policies and procedures to ensure "taxpayer dollars are not going to any social media companies that suppress free speech"
"They're rich enough," he said.
Trump says many people wanted this for a long time:
"And now we're doing it, and I'm sure they'll be doing a lawsuit and I'm also sure that we're going for legislation in addition to this. And the legislation will start immediately. I've been called by Democrats who want to do this."
On Twitter account, whether he would delete it:
"If we had fair press in this country, I would do this in a heartbeat. There's nothing I'd rather do than get rid of my whole Twitter account. But I'm able to get to I guess 186 million people when you add up all the different accounts, and add Facebook and Instagram."
>From WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Emmanuel Macron of France. President Trump and President Macron discussed progress on defeating the coronavirus and reopening global economies. The two leaders agreed on the importance of convening the G7 in person in the near future. President Trump and President Macron also discussed critical global and bilateral issues.
The information contained in this electronic transmission is intended for the exclusive use of the individuals to whom it is addressed and may contain information that is privileged and confidential, the disclosure of which is prohibited by law. If the reader of this transmission is not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. In addition, any unauthorized copying, disclosure or distribution of the material in this e-mail and any attachments is strictly forbidden.
WH called a travel/photo lid at 5:37 p.m.
Have a pleasant evening.
>From WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump was briefed on proactive preparations taken by his Administration ahead of the 2020 hurricane season. Officials shared that an active season is expected in the Atlantic Ocean and a below average season in the Pacific Ocean. President Trump was updated on the Administration's strategy to safely, effectively, and expeditiously serve Americans this hurricane season through locally executed, State managed, and federally supported emergency response adapted to support the public health guidelines established to address the coronavirus pandemic.
Specifically, the United States Government continues to encourage unprecedented planning and outreach across all levels of government and the private sector to help prepare for and respond to a potentially difficult hurricane season while taking special precautions to address the threat posed by the coronavirus before, during, and in the aftermath of a storm. To confront this threat, the Administration has fully stocked distribution centers with more emergency supplies than in any other year in history and has increased urban search and rescue capabilities and staffing in 22 states. Additionally, FEMA has updated its approach to incident management by formalizing the prioritization of restoring community lifelines after disasters to ensure communities are reopened as quickly as possible.
President Trump was joined in the briefing by First Lady Melania Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, Acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Pete Gaynor, Acting National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Director Dr. Neil Jacobs, National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien, Deputy Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Resilience Dr. Julia Nesheiwat, and other senior staff.