Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning.

Call time is not until this afternoon (on this extremely unseasonably cold day in DC), but the White House has sent along the following statement:

In response to the AP report on CDC documents:

"The re-opening guidance shared prematurely was in draft form and had not been vetted through the interagency review process. This is an iterative effort to ensure effective, clear guidance is presented to the American people. I had not seen a version of the guidance incorporating interagency and task force input and therefore was not yet comfortable releasing a final work product."

- CDC Director Robert Redfield 


From Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Martín Vizcarra of the Republic of Peru. President Trump noted the immense challenge Peru is confronting regarding the coronavirus pandemic, and he praised the bravery and steadfastness of the people of Peru in their determination to lower the incidence of the virus in their country. President Trump offered United States assistance to support Peru's healthcare needs. Both leaders agreed that international cooperation is paramount in confronting this health crisis. President Trump also thanked President Vizcarra for being a strong supporter of a return of democracy in Venezuela and for standing up for freedom throughout the region. 


>From Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Laurentino Cortizo Cohen of Panama regarding the two countries' ongoing efforts to confront the coronavirus pandemic and protect the health and safety of their respective citizens. President Trump affirmed his support for the Government of Panama, offered resources to help support critical care for Panamanians afflicted with the coronavirus, and expressed a shared commitment to achieving sustained economic growth in Panama. President Trump noted Panama's stewardship of the Panama Canal is integral to the global economy during the pandemic and thanked President Cortizo for his administration's continued support for a democratic transition in Venezuela. 


Your pooler has passed her temperature check, has her purple sticker, and is waiting at the briefing room doors for the President's meeting with senior military leadership and his national security team in the Cabinet Room.

Our understanding is the meeting is in progress.

As always, will send updates as they happen.


Pool was brought in to the Cabinet Room around 6:26 p.m., and were inside for just over one minute.

The president introduced those in the room as the Joint Chiefs and said they had had a very productive meeting, which would be continuing after we left.

He said they discussed "various things."

The pool was then ushered out and the president did not answer any shouted questions.

Below is meeting attendees via the White House. Chief of Staff Mark Meadow's seat was empty.

I will send a picture in a second report so you can see how the room was spaced.



President Donald J. Trump
 Mark Meadows, 
Robert O'Brien, 
LTG Keith Kellogg, 


 Secretary Mike Pompeo, 
 Secretary Steven Mnuchin, 
 Secretary Mark Esper, 
 Acting Director Richard Grenell, 
 General Mark A. Milley,
 General John E. Hyten,
 General David L. Goldfein, 
 General David H. Berger, 
 General James C. McConville,
 Admiral Karl L. Schultz, 
 General John W. Raymond, 
 


As you can see below, none of those seated around the table we're wearing masks, based on the quick look around the room the pool got. 


Your pooler is informed by another member of the pool that Meadows was in the room, just not in his seat. Apologies for the oversight.


At 6:38 pm the White House called a travel and photo lid.

Stay safe out there. 