Pool Reports by 
, 








 On Friday, May 15
, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump and USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue will travel to Laurel, MD to visit Coastal Sunbelt Produce to highlight USDA'S $19 Billion Coronavirus Farmer Assistance Program using funding and authorities provided in the CARES Act and the Families First Coronavirus Response Act (FFCRA). As a part of this program, the new $3 Billion Purchase and Distribution Program, otherwise known as the Farmers to Families Food Box Program, USDA will partner with national, regional and local suppliers, whose food supply chain has been significantly impacted by the closure of many restaurants, hotels and other food service entities, to purchase and distribute up to $3 billion in fresh produce, dairy and meat products. Suppliers will deliver food boxes to food banks, community and faith-based organizations and other non-profits serving Americans in need.

Advisor Trump and Secretary Perdue will do a brief tour of Coastal Produce's Distribution Center and show an example of a food box set to be delivered on Friday.

Advisor Trump has been working closely with USDA to ensure our Nation's farmers receive critical support through the implementation of the Coronavirus Food Assistance Program as a part of FFRCA and the CARES Act. USDA estimates that in the first round of contracts, a 
 recipients were small or regional food suppliers and will receive an estimated 
 in contracts over the next 45 days. The participating farmers will receive assistance for their businesses while also providing fresh food to those most in need through the Farmers to Families Food Box.
Coastal is an approved contractor with AMS under the Farmers to Families Food Box Program. The contract is to source and deliver American grown fresh fruit and fresh vegetable boxes up to $4,540,000. Coastal will package these products into family-sized boxes, then transport them to food banks, community and faith-based organizations, and other non-profits serving Americans in need starting on May 15, 2020. Current Coastal partners include Parker Farms as a supplier and the Capitol Area Food Bank, the Maryland Food Bank, the Baltimore City Food Bank and Brighter Bites as recipient organizations.

Coastal was established in May 1992 and has emerged as the leading food service distributor of produce and dairy in the Mid-Atlantic. It operates out of a 330,000 square foot facility and delivers fresh products utilizing a fleet of over 185 refrigerated trucks that deliver to VA, DC, MD, DE, NJ, Eastern PA, and WV. Additionally, they employ over 1,000 people providing industry leading food safety, quality, a vast selection of products, and personal service. Coastal, also serves some of the largest chain restaurants and multi-unit operations in the nation, as well as many of the finest hotels, resorts, country clubs, caterers, and independent restaurants in the area.

 "Small businesses are the backbone of America's economy. Whether it be through the massively successful PPP program, including small agricultural businesses in EIDL, or by awarding up to 3 billion dollars to small, regional farmers, ranchers and distributors through the Farmers to Families Food Box program, this administration will continue to implement innovative and impactful policies to bolster American workers, families and small business owners." - 


,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
,
 


Ivanka Trump and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue arrive at Coastal Sunbelt Producers in Laurel, Maryland around 10:07 with the company CEOOutside it is an unseasonably warm and sunny day expected to rise to a scorching 84 in May.
But inside they walk into the very cold repacking room.
Ivanka is wearing a mask.
Sec Purdue is wearing a mask
They are joined by Maryland Governor Hogan who is also wearing a maskWorkers are wearing masks and face shields as the group makes their way into the distribution center to launch the USDA Farmers to Family Food Box Program. Several dozen workers are packing boxes of fresh produce to send out to non-profits and food banks.
Production continues around the group. 


Ivanka Trump and Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue tour the packing area.
They check out boxes of mushrooms, tomato, and spinach.
Perdue's mask has an American flag on it
Ivanka has a fancy American flag pin on her black mask
The program goal is to make sure farmers products are purchased and consumed by linking distribution centers with non-profits. This is a regional and local initiative.
Ivanka asks about the need and impact locally but your pooler can't hear the CEO response 


Ivanka Trump and Sec Perdue move to an outdoor tent where they host a presser. They have graphics on posters showing the farmers to distributors to families chain - the intended goal of the program. Also a table of food boxes. About 30 staff members from the distribution center sit spaced 6 feet apart wearing masks to listen in.

CEO welcomes everyone

Perdue - calls the comapany "impressive" says he was "devastated when the food service operation shut down" says boxes will be delivered to the most needy. Says he was "Horrified to hear ... we had broken the supply chain."

Ivanka Trump - thanks Perdue and Governor Hogan. Says she was glad to meet the people helping with the food box program. Says boxes have "finest fresh produce locally grown"
Touts Trump admin efforts to help small businesses during pandemic says majority of recipients are small and regional suppliersSays furloughed employees at Sunbelt rehired because of the program after company got 5 million from USDA

Farmers who are part of the program in the crowd too.

Meant to mention earlier- press had temperature checks before entering the plant. 


Governor Hogan takes podium thanks Ivanka and Perdue and POTUS
Says program will make big impact locally. Thanks local farmers and food banks
Says Maryland has 3 approved contractors in the program

Coastal Sunbelt CEO says their food service trucks were parked after pandemic hit. Still serving some restaurants, launched a curbside dairy and produce program. Says he is proud to participate in the USDA program. Says usually shakes hands - laughed - but he did not shake any hands

During speeches everyone removed their masks. 


Event ended around 11am Eastern 
Pool Reports below by 
, 




Happy Friday from your pooler...

Larry Kudlow stopped to gaggle briefly for about 12 minutes...sending some quick highlights below

Full video via CSPAN here 




"Another $3 trillion package seems off target to me."

Said "let's wait" to see the impact of the stimulus measures that have already passed.

"Let's see how it goes."

"I don't believe we can spend ourselves into prosperity."



"Internally we're working through a number of options."

"It's a must"

"We're looking at a number of options...it's a must."

Asked if the WH needed Congress to act on liability- "I think we will. I would expect so."



Said there were ongoing discussions. "There's stuff going on behind the scenes...The president is very keen it. I'll leave it there, I don't want to negotiate here. It's very much alive." 


Pool is now in position in the Rose Garden for POTUS' briefing on vaccines.

Pool will send along highlights but as a reminder the event will be live streamed


Also as a housekeeping note — all poolers were required to take Abbott coronavirus test this morning before the start of pool duty. Temperatures were also checked before entering the White House and just now before entering Rose Garden. 


All attendees are wearing masks as we await POTUS...

The WH Press Office passes along the following...

Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver a National Update on Vaccine Development in the Rose Garden of the White House.



President Donald J. Trump
 Mark Meadows, 
Jared Kushner, 
Ambassador Debbie Birx, 


 Secretary Mnuchin, 
 Secretary Mark Esper, 
 Secretary Alex Azar, 
 GEN Mark Milley,
 GEN Gustave Perna, 
 Dr. Jerome Adams, 
 Dr. Stephen Hahn, 
 Dr. Francis Collins,
 Dr. Robert Redfield,
 Dr. Anthony Fauci,
 Dr. Peter Marks,
 Dr. Janet Woodcock,
 Dr. Bruce Tromberg, 
 Adam Boehler, 
 Paul Mango, 
 Dr. Robert Kadlec,
 


POTUS entered the Rose Garden at 12:40pm. Arrived to applause from attendees.

White House is streaming his remarks live at 
 


Might not be audible on livestream...

As POTUS delivers his remarks on vaccines, the loud blare of vehicle horns can be heard from the Rose Garden. Sound appears to be gradually getting louder from outside the White House grounds. 


Briefing ended at 1:16pm...honks have largely died down. 


Please note WH briefing has been moved to 2:30pm.

Pool has been assembled outside of Oval Office for 12:30 Space Force flag presentation that was previously Closed Press

 


At 1:28pm pool was escorted into Oval Office. Departed just before 1:40p

Potus confirmed that he is heading to Camp David where he will be joined by lawmakers. Asked about guest list.

"Various people including some folks on the Hill.

Asked if phase 4 stim bill will be discussed

POTUS said: "No, not so much," before adding...

"Phase 4 could happen but it will happen in the right way."

Said "Different things" will be discussed.

Some color from Space Force flag presentation.

POTUS was behind Resolute Desk, surrounded by Defense Sec. Esper, Gen. Miley, General Kellog, General Raymond,

Esper: It's a very historic moment"

POTUS touted missile development: " I call it the super duper missile"

"Space is going to be the future."

"We're now the leader in space"

POTUS then introduced Chief master sgt. Roger Toberman (need to confirm spelling) who alongside General Raymond helped unfurl Space Force flag.

Raymond explained flag. Said North Star "signifies our core value, our guiding light." 


>From White House Press Office:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will sign the 2020 Armed Forces Day Proclamation and will be presented with the official flag of the sixth branch of the Armed Forces, the United States Space Force (USSF), by senior leaders of the military.

Flag background:
This flag was produced by dedicated artists and crafts people at the Defense Logistics Agency, Flag Room in Philadelphia (the same entity that makes the President's personal flags) from a design finalized and documented by the Department's Institute of Heraldry at Fort Belvoir, VA. This is the first new Service and accompanying Service Flag in over 72 years. The official flag of the Space Force is derived from the Seal of the United States Space Force, which was approved by President Trump on 15 Jan 2020. The flag takes the key and central elements of the Seal and places them on a black field fringed in platinum with the words United States Space Force and Roman Numerals MMXIX (2019) below.

Seal background:
Dark blue and white combine to represent the vast recesses of outer space. The Delta Wing evokes historic ties to the earliest days of the U.S. Air Force space community, and symbolizes change and innovation. It also represents all variations of space vehicles that support our National Defense Strategy and National Security Space Strategy. Dark and light shades of grey within the delta embody the 24/7 (x-apple-data-detectors://2) operations of the Space Force, while the placement and upward orientation of the delta reveals the central role of the Space Force in defending the space domain. The Globe represents the terrestrial home of the U.S. Space Force and it's support to the joint warfighters. The Elliptical Orbit (around the globe) signifies defense and protection from all adversaries and threats emanating from the space domain. It also represents ongoing interagency cooperation and allied partnerships. The white Polaris symbolizes the guiding light of security and alludes to a constantpresence and vigilance in space now and in the future. Two clusters of small stars represent the space assets developed, maintained, and operated by the U.S. Space Force. The three larger stars symbolize the Organize, Train, and Equip functions of the Space Force.

US Space Force background:
*     On June 18, 2018, POTUS directed the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Pentagon to establish a Space Force as the sixth branch of the Armed Forces.
*     On February 19, 2019, POTUS signed SPD-4, outlining the presidential policy framework for establishing the United States Space Force.
*     On December 20, 2019, POTUS signed the FY 20 National Defense Authorization Act into law, creating the United States Space Force (USSF) as the 7th branch of the armed forces, and announced General John "Jay" Raymond would be the first Chief of Space Operations for the U.S. Space Force. Since then, DoD and the US Air Force (USAF) have been hard at work implementing the legislation and standing up the Space Force.
*     On January 24, 2020 POTUS announced the official seal of the USSF.



President Donald J. Trump
 Robert O'Brien, 
LTG Keith Kellogg,


 Secretary Mark Esper,
 Secretary Barbara Barrett, 
 GEN Mark Milley, 
 GEN Jay Raymond, 
 CMSgt Roger Towberman, 
 


2 min warning for briefing called at 2:37pm 


As always please double check against transcript.

"We have all the cards, because we have the cards of the American people I know what they want, and I've always known what they want. That's why I'm sitting here...phase 4 is going to happen...it's going to happen in a much better way for the American people."



Secretary Esper: "It's a very historic moment. The United States has been a spacefaring nation for decades, but we know there are adversaries, in the last several years that have weaponized space. They've made it a warfighting domain. And so with the establishment of Space Force and establishment of Space Command, the United States is now doing what it needs to do to protect our assets in space and ensure that space remains the heavens by which we not only protect America, but we sustain our economy, we sustain our commercial capabilities,we sustain Americans way of life."

.:"It's critical that we're going to sustain our way of life, we're going to defend our nation that we're going to have to defend ourselves in space, and therefore the need for space force and it's a great day for the nation."

: "We're proud of this flag. We're proud to have an opportunity to present it to you."

"Very few people realize how important space is to everything that we do, and that it's vulnerable, because we need to up our game in space. And you've recognized that and built a force that will help to protect our assets in space and deter aggressive actions in space and if deterrence doesn't work, to be able to defend our assets in space and those of our allies."

 said we're "building right now incredible military equipment," before going on to describe the "Super Duper" missile.

"We have, I call it the Super Duper Missile, and I heard the other night 17 times faster than what they have right now, when you take the fastest missile we have right now. You've heard Russia has five times and China's working on five or six times, we have one 17 times and it's just gotten the go ahead." 


apologies — the last pool report I sent out with two minute warning should have been Pool Report 10 not 8.

At 3:56pm pool escorted to Rose Garden for ceremony. Among those seated are three Girl Scouts wearing masks. 3 police officers. There are two podiums set. One on the grass and the other on the steps leading up to Oval

picture attached 


As a reminder...event will be live-streamed at WhiteHouse.Gov/live

>From the WH:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks in the Rose Garden highlighting the hard work, heroism, and hope that Americans from all walks of life have exemplified during the COVID-19 pandemic. The President is honored to recognize a handful of individuals who have gone above and beyond to assist their fellow Americans during this challenging time and who represent the American spirit of generosity and grace.



President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump

 Spencer Garrett, 
 Amy Ford, Nurse, 
 Ben Ross, 
 Clay Young, 
 Lauren Matney, 
 Sravya Annappareddy, 
 Laila Khan, 
 


POTUS and FLOTUS arrived at 4:20pm

The symphony of truck horns is alive and well... 


Event concluded at 4:40pm as POTUS and FLOTUS walked away into Oval Office. 


Pool is gathered as of 4:56p on South Lawn awaiting POTUS' departure to Camp David 


POTUS stepped out of Oval at 5:04pm. Marine One wheels up at 5:10pm

Took a few questions...

on Camp David meetings
"I think they will be very successful meetings."

Asked about focus of Camp David discussions said "Some military" discussions, some not-military.

Asked about images of protestors carrying arms in Michigan
"I haven't seen it."

Q: Should Vaccines be free?
"we're looking at that actually." 


That's a wrap...Lid called at 5:45

>From WH:
"The President landed at Camp David at 5:44 p.m."

Have a great weekend! 