Pool Reports by 
, 




A lunch lid is in place until 2:30 pm. No other scheduling updates. Peter Navarro had a TV hit this morning, pooler is told, but he did not stop to talk to reporters.

The only event on POTUS public schedule that is open press is the news conference at 4pm.


Press and White House guests are assembled in the Rose Garden awaiting the president.

In the meantime, Judd Deere sends along the following statement on the event:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks on the Trump Administration's COVID-19 testing accomplishments.



President Donald J. Trump
 Mark Meadows, 
Dan Scavino,
Jared Kushner, 


 Secretary Alex Azar, 
 Admiral Brett Giroir, 
 Adam Boehler,
 Brad Smith,
 


The president arrived in the Rose Garden at 4:15 pm. Every guest of the president and White House staffer your pooler can see is wearing a mask. So is every reporter.

President Trump is the only person who is not wearing one, as far as pooler can see. The president is at least six feet from the closest person to him, Jared Kushner, if not further, and he is relatively far away from members of the press, who are seated four rows and a rope line behind White House guests.


Addendum: one agent on pooler's far left, behind a TV screen that says "AMERICA LEADS THE WORLD IN TESTING," is not wearing a mask.


At 5:34 pm, the White House called a travel photo lid.

Also, the press conference with the president ended at roughly 5:20 pm.

Apologies for the delay in sending.


Judd Deere passes along the following statement:

"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi to congratulate him on his confirmation by the Iraqi Council of Representatives. President Trump expressed the support of the United States for Iraq during the ongoing global coronavirus pandemic and emphasized the shared interest with Iraq in achieving the enduring defeat of ISIS. President Trump also encouraged the Prime Minister to address the Iraqi people's demands for reform and legitimate early national elections."