Pool Reports by 
, 




It is a beautiful morning. It is also Tuesday. I am your in-town print pooler.

Larry Kudlow stopped briefly in the driveway to take questions after a television interview. The director of the Economic Council was asked what the administration planned to do as the country re-opened to help lower income Americans specifically.

Kudlow noted that before the crisis low and middle-income individuals were experiencing wage increases, and he suggested that sticking to those "growth incentive" principles would revive the economy post-COVID.

"We want to help people reinvest in the economy, and then we have offered a payroll tax holiday, so that you can come back to work, those folks will get a higher after-tax wage of 7.6% higher," he said before noting that bringing companies and supply back, "on-shoring" would be "a job gainer."

He declined to offer specifics about President Trump's threat to permanently cut funding to the World Health Organization other than to reference the "very tough letter" that the White House sent last night.

Kudlow apologized and paused at a light point to retrieve a hanky. "Excuse me, my nose is running. Allergies," he explained. "I'm getting killed out here," he joked. Your pooler more than sympathizes.

The president will deliver remarks "on supporting our nation's farmers, ranchers, and food supply chain" at 11:00am The president will hold a cabinet meeting at 3:00pm. If anything changes, I'll let you know. The pool is now taking a COVID-19 test in lower press.

Good morning, 


Pool has gathered for the president's remarks concerning farmers, ranchers, and the food supply chain.

It was originally scheduled for 11:00, and can be live streamed on the White House YouTube channel.

There is a podium set up in the middle of the room flanked by tables stacked with fruits and vegetables. Ag Sec. Sonny Perdue stands on the right and holds a mask in his left hand. It is patterned after the American flag.

We are awaiting the president.

Judd Deere passes along the following:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will deliver remarks on supporting our Nation's farmers, ranchers, and food supply chain in the Roosevelt Room of the White House.

On April, 17, 2020, President Trump directed Secretary Perdue to expedite assistance to America's farmers, ranchers?and consumers. The President directed USDA to use all funds and authorities at its disposal. In addition to the $16 billion in direct payments, the details of which are expected to be announced shortly, USDA has begun to purchase and distribute up to $3 billion of ag products to those in need through the Food Box Distribution Program, which President Trump tweeted (applewebdata://D7CBFBB0-4D1E-4813-95BC-D11A1BC130CE/%3E
) about on May 9, 2020.

Contracts to distributors have been awarded by USDA, and on Friday, May 15, 2020, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump and Secretary Perdue toured Coastal Sunbelt Producers in Laurel, MD, which has begun the packing and distribution of these boxes to families in need.

The following individuals are expected to attend:

The White House

President Donald J. Trump
Ivanka Trump, Advisor to the President
Larry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic Council
Tim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison

Trump Administration

Secretary Sonny Perdue, Department of Agriculture

External Participants

Zippy Duvall,President and CEO, American Farm Bureau Federation
Marty Smith,President, National Cattlemen's Beef Association
Scott Sink,Livestock Producer; Vice President, Virginia Farm Bureau Federation
Robert Mills, Jr.,Livestock Producer; Owner and Operator, Briar View Farms, Inc.
David Hickman,Vegetable Grower; Co-Owner and Operator, Dublin Farms, Inc.
Rod Parker, Vegetable Grower; Founding Partner, Parker Farms 


The president began his remarks about how American farmers and ranchers are working to fight "the invisible enemy."

He promised $16 billion in aid directly to farmers and ranchers and another $3 billion to purchase and distribute Food Box Distribution supplies (see Judd's statement in Pool Report #2 for details).

"You can go back to Abraham Lincoln," Trump said, "there's no president in history that the farmers like more."

He complimented the accent of one of the ranchers from southwest Virginia.

He joked about farmers "buying bigger tractors."

He asked "what is it with farmers," quipping that there isn't any other job a farmer would rather do.

He also discussed the difference between red potatoes and the Idaho variety with one of the producers. "I'm getting a little education on potatoes," he joked.

Check quotes with the transcript, and again, the remarks are being live-streamed.

Sec. Perdue is speaking now. Ivanka Trump up next. More TK. 


The president concluded his remarks, took questions briefly, and then announced "I am going over to Capitol Hill." Quotes are incoming. In the meantime, video of the event can be found here: 


The president's motorcade departed the White House at 1:02pm. We arrived at the Capitol after an uneventful trip through unusually empty streets at 1:09pm.

We are holding in the vans, and I didn't spot POTUS enter the building.

Deputy press secretary Judd Deere passes along the following:

"President Trump will attend the Senate GOP Policy Lunch in the Hart Office Building to thank senators for their work during this unprecedented crisis, discuss the progress safely opening up America again, and explore the path to economic prosperity for all Americans." 


The pool was ushered out of the vans and into Hart at 1:30, and we are now staked out by the doors of the Senate Rules Committee.

The president is inside at lunch with Republican senators. Chief of Staff Mark Meadows was spotted, by others, accompanying him.

A velvet rope separates the White House pool from our Hill colleagues.

So, that's where we all are. 


The president walked out of the lunch and took questions briefly before departing from the Hart Senate building. He was asked about FISA reform, his personal use of hydroxychloroquine, and Speaker Pelosi calling him "morbidly obese" among other questions asked by Hill reporters.

The motorcade arrived at the White House at 2:18. 


?The president's cabinet will meet in the East Room where chairs are positioned farther apart and the flags of each of the administrative agencies line the wall.

Pool was ushered into the room shortly after 3:00pm. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was the first to arrive.

We are waiting on the president now.

I'll try to pass along any color not already visible on your television screens. The event will be live streamed and can be viewed here:



The president just announced he will sign an executive order limiting regulations. Will pass along more details soon.

Deputy Press Sec. Judd Deere passes along the following:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a Cabinet Meeting in the East Room of the White House.





President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Dan Scavino, 
Chris Liddell, 
Robert O'Brien, 
Jared Kushner, 
Ivanka Trump,
Marc Short, 
Kellyanne Conway,
Peter Navarro,
Larry Kudlow, 
Brooke Rollins,
Hope Hicks,
Alyssa Farrah, 
Kayleigh McEnany, 
John McEntee,
Pat Cipollone, 
Derek Lyons, 
John Fleming,
Kristan Nevins,
Joseph Keith Kellogg,
Eric Ueland, 




Secretary Mike Pompeo,
Secretary Steven Mnuchin, 
Secretary Mark Esper,
Secretary William Barr, 
Secretary David Bernhardt, 
Secretary Sonny Perdue,
Secretary Wilbur Ross, 
Secretary Gene Scalia, 
Secretary Alex Azar,
Secretary Benjamin Carson, 
Secretary Elaine Chao, 
Secretary Dan Brouillette, 
Secretary Betsy DeVos, 
Secretary Robert Wilkie, 
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Mark Meadows, 
Administrator Andrew Wheeler,
Acting Director Russ Vought, 
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, 
Administrator Jovita Carranza,
Acting Director Richard Grenell,
Director Gina Haspel, 
Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz, 
Scott Turner, 


Vice President Pence spoke after the president and said that "America is on its way back."

Pence said that was "proud to report" that currently "all 50 states, as of today are partially reopening their economies."

He adds that the American people are "are breathing free air and doing it responsibly."

Acting Director of National Intelligence Richard Grenell spoke briefly saying that the IC "is very interested in providing policymakers, everybody around this table, with raw intelligence that is not politicized in any possible way."

The president signed the executive order on deregulation. He turned to Transportation Sec. Elaine Chao, wishes her luck, and told her the EO "gives you tremendous power to cut regulation."

Housing and Urban Development Sec. Ben Carson speaking now.

Trump notes that he ran against Carson, and the president adds "he was even tougher to beat running on stage holding a Bible in his hand."

Check quote against transcript. Briefing is being streamed. 


On the trade deal with China, Trump says "I feel differently now about that deal than I did three months ago."

Mark Meadows was called on by Trump. The chief of staff thanked the president before adding, "we are not only ready to reopen our country, but we're open for business."

HHS Sec. Azar says that because of the "virus-induced recession," according to one estimate "we'll see an extra 65,000 deaths from suicide, drug-overdose, alcohol-abuse over the years."

He adds that, in some states, reports of child mistreatment is down because children are empty.

Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz, HHS Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, spoke about the dangers inherent to drug use during pandemic.

"I believe it is important to point out that pre-pandemic," she said, "we lose 120,000 lives a year to drug overdoses and suicide."

"How many more lives are we willing to sacrifice in the name of containing the virus," she adds.

Trump listened attentively before saying that "is very sobering stuff." 


Asked about why he is taking Hydroxychloroquine, President Trump said "it is just a line of defense."

"I think it's worthwhile as a line of defense, and I plan on staying on it for a little while longer. I'm just very curious myself," he adds.

VA Sec Robert Wilkie now says that the study critical of Hydroxychloroquine was "not a VA study."

Please check quotes against transcript. Meeting is being live-streamed. 


The question and answer portion of the cabinet meeting ended at 4:20pm, and then the pool was ushered out of the East Room.

Another snippet on Hydroxychloroquine, Trump says after his valet and Pence's press secretary tested positive for the virus, he figured it wasn't "a bad time to take it."

The briefing was televised, and here is a link from the good folks at C-Span: 


The White House called a travel/photo lid just now.