Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I will be your print pooler today. The president does not have any public events on his schedule until the 5pm coronavirus task force briefing this evening. I will keep you updated if that changes. Let me know if you have any questions.
The White House has called a lunch lid until 1:30pm.
White House deputy press secretary Judd Deere passes the following along:
Today, President Donald J. Trump participated in a call with thousands of State, local, and tribal officials to thank them for their partnership to respond to and mitigate COVID-19. The President and several other Federal leaders also underscored the Administration's commitment to empowering all levels of government to effectively respond to COVID-19. Senior officials from the Departments of Treasury, Health and Human Services, Education, Housing and Urban Development, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, Justice, and Transportation joined the discussion about the unprecedented communications, resources, and flexibilities that the Federal Government has provided to State, local, and tribal leaders to meet this shared challenge, which calls for solutions from every level of government. Federal officials also provided agency-specific updates on implementation of the unprecedented economic relief in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Since January 2020, the TrumpAdministration has held nearly 120 briefings with more than 60,000 State, local, and tribal leaders in every State and territory in the Nation.
The president has tweeted that the briefing will begin at 5:30pm this evening: >
We have been given a two-minute warning until the briefing. Reporters' temperatures were taken prior to the briefing, as has become common practice during the coronavirus outbreak. I will send highlights and color as necessary but a reminder that this is live-streamed. You can watch it here: 
President Trump and Vice President Pence entered the room just after 5:45pm. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Dr. Deborah Birx, Dr. Anthony Fauci and CDC Director Robert Redfield are also in attendance. POTUS is speaking now.
The briefing concluded at 7:30pm. Your pooler forgot to send a note mid-briefing when POTUS left, but my math tells me it was at approximately 6:40 pm.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 7:35pm. Have a wonderful evening.