Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Friday,
Your pooler has had her temperature taken and is ready to roll.
There are two things on the menu today.
At noon POTUS participates in an Easter Blessing with Bishop Harry Jackson in the Oval. Restricted to Pool.
And then there's the Coronavirus Task Force daily briefing scheduled for 1 p.m.
DJS
I just got this from Judd Deere:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. President Trump and President Putin discussed the latest efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic and maintain stability in global energy markets. The two leaders also covered critical bilateral and global issues."
After temperatures were taken, The pool entered the Oval at 12:08
Where POTUS participated in Easter Blessing with Bishop Harry Jackson.
Bishop and VP flanked POTUS who say at desk
He read from a typed piece of paper
“Our people are making tremendous sacrifices to end this pandemic”Asked all Americans to pray, thanked those who prayed for him.
Thanked the Pences.
Wishes all a Happy Easter
Bishop thanked White House for including churches in coronavirus package.
Prayed
“Let medical science come forth”
Trump did not take questions
Mark Meadows stood on the room.
Out at 12:15.
This is what POTUS said:
"Well thank you very much. On this Good Friday, Christians from all around the world remember the suffering and death upon the cross of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. At Easter Sunday we will celebrate his glorious resurrection .
At this holy time our nation is engaged in a battle like never before, the invisible enemy.
Our brave doctors, nurses and responders, first responder, responders of all, are fighting to save lives, our workers are racing to deliver critical medical supplies. Our best scientists are working around the clock to develop life-saving therapeutics and I think they're doing really well in doing so.
Our people are making tremendous sacrifices to end this pandemic. Though we will not be able to gather together with one another as we normally would on Easter, we can use this sacred time to focus on prayer, reflection and growing (I think he said) our personal relationship with God, so important.
I ask all Americans to pray that God will heal our nation, to bring comfort to those who are grieving, to give strength to the doctors, nurses and health care workers, to restore to the sick and to renew the hope in every person who is suffering.
Our nation will come through like never before.
I thank the many families that have prayed for me and for my family and your prayers are felt. And I am forever grateful.
I'd like to thank our great Vice President and his wonderful wife, who we all know very well, Karen, for the incredible job they do andfor their service, not only to the country, but for their service to God.
Almost 3,000 years ago, the Prophet Isaiah wrote these words,"Darkness covers the earth but the Lord rises upon you and his glory appears over you. For the Lord will be
your everlasting light
As our nation battles the invisible enemy, we reaffirm that Americans believe in the power of prayer. We give thanks for the majesty of creation and to the gift of eternal life and we place our trust in the hands of almighty God.
I'd like to wish everybody a happy Easter.
He also mentioned "184 countries as of this morning are fighting this enemy and we pray for them all."
Then introduced the Bishop.
Please check transcript for accuracy and better punctuation.
I just had my temperature taken again. Briefing is scheduled for 1 p.m.
You can watch it here.
The president tweeted video of the Easter Blessing in the Oval Office.
In answer to a question, your pooler was not tested for coronavirus today and does not expect to be.
Briefing now moved to 1:30.
They're here.
You know what to do.
Briefing began at 1:50, ended at 4:06.
We have a travel/photo lid.
FYI, I asked about the president's plans for the weekend and got nothing beyond the meeting with airlines and watching Easter service on his laptop.
It's been real.