Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House. I'm your print pooler today.
It's a beautiful day here in Washington – 57 degrees, with the sun trying to peak out from the clouds.
The president is participating in a phone call with the Major League Commissioners at 12 p.m. – it is closed press. I'll let you know if that changes.
Today's briefing will be held at 3:30 p.m. Please shoot your questions my way and I'll try to get to them.
White House spokesman Judd Deere passes this along -
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone with commissioners of major league sports to discuss the all-of-America response to COVID-19. The President recognized the good work being done by many teams and players to care for their communities, workforces, and fan bases across the Nation. The commissioners thanked President Trump for his national leadership and for his interest in the sports industry. President Trump encouraged them to continue to support their fellow Americans during this challenging time.
President Donald J. Trump
Kellyanne Conway, Assistant to the President and Senior Counselor
Andrew Giuliani, Special Assistant to the President and Associate
Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Gary Bettman, Commissioner of the National Hockey League
Cathy Engelbert, Commissioner of the Women's National Basketball Association
Don Garber, Commissioner of Major League Soccer
Roger Goodell, Commissioner of the National Football League
Rob Manfred, Commissioner of Major League Baseball
Vince McMahon, President of the WWE
Jay Monahan, Commissioner of the PGA Tour
Adam Silver, Commissioner of the National Basketball Association
Dana White, Ultimate Fighting Championship
Roger Penske, IndyCar
Michael Whan, Commissioner of the LPGA Tour
Vince McMahon, President of the WWE
Drew Fleming, President of the Breeders Cup
The briefing will now begin at 4 p.m., the White House loudspeaker informs us.
Reporters were, again, given temperature checks before the start of the briefing. Today's sticker color is neon orange.
At 4:14 p.m. Drs. Fauci and Birx appeared in the press briefing room and stood on opposite sides of the podium.
Dr. Birx was wished a happy birthday from a reporter in the room.
At 4:15 p.m. President Trump, followed by Vice President Mike Pence entered the briefing room.
Briefing is being livestreamed, but I'll send color as needed.
The briefing ended at 5:59 p.m.
Your pooler missed Dr. Hahn of the FDA coming in, but as you saw, he was also in the room and took the podium after President Trump at the top.
At 6:06 p.m. the White House called a travel/photo lid.
Wishing you a nice, socially distant, rest of your weekend!
Judd Deere passes this along -
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India to discuss how the two countries can work together to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The two leaders agreed to remain in touch on the issue of global supply chains for critical pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and to ensure they continue to function as smoothly as possible during the global health crisis.