Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where outside it is a lovely spring morning, and inside people avoid one another and eye anyone not wearing a mask with apprehension.
The president has on his schedule lunch with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo at 1230 and a conference call with "Mental Health Leaders and Advocates" at 1430.
Both are closed press, or at least are closed right now.
There is the daily show at 1700, where the president has made a habit of showing up, at least for the first portion. This will be streamed on the White House web site and carried live by C-SPAN and possibly others.
For those interested in the "social distancing" spacing of seats in the White House briefing room:
Before the pandemic, all 49 seats in the room (seven rows, seven seats per row) would be occupied during the rare briefings, with each person no more than a few inches from at least one person and within two feet of as many as eight people.
In the first round of "distancing," this was changed to every other seat, meaning that the typical seat was still barely two feet away from six others.
In this current round, with two occupied seats per row, those with seats are STILL within 3.5 feet of at least one person, and as many as four people for those with interior seats.
Also: A front row TV pool seat is barely six feet away from whoever happens to be standing at the lectern at that moment.
Two date, three journalists that we know of who spent time in the briefing room came down with coronavirus-like symptoms. One tested negative.
Here is the guidance from the CDC web site:
"Stay at least 6 feet (2 meters) from other people"
The White House press office announced a lunch lid at 1234 until 1400.
Larry Kudlow spoke very briefly with reporters on the driveway following television appearances and said the president is looking for advice on how to reopen the economy.
"The president has been talking to his economic advisers."
"There's no formal structure."
"There's nothing formal going on."
"The president is seeking guidance from everybody, inside and outside of government.
Kudlow said Trump is open to advice from people regardless of their party affiliation.
"He has always been bipartisan."
The White House and WHCA announced that everyone who will be in the room during the briefing will be given a fast COVID-19 test, with results expected to be delivered before the start of the briefing.
Per the WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, First Lady Melania Trump, and Second Lady Karen Pence spoke by telephone with hundreds of American mental health professionals, leaders, and advocates to discuss the effects COVID-19 is having on the American people. Today's COVID-19 call was the first to bring these four influential leaders together on one issue. The President recognized that a great number of Americans are enduring hardships – including loneliness from social distancing, despair from being out of work, anxiety from the danger of the virus, and grief from the loss of a loved one. President Trump thanked the doctors, counselors, and many other mental health professionals on the call for providing vital mental health services during this time through tele-health. The mental health professionals thanked President Trump for his attention to mental health during this challenging time, including $425 million for mental health and substance abuse services includedin the CARES Act, expansion of tele-Mental Health services, and increased capacity of the Disaster Distress Hotline. President Trump remains committed to providing Americans with vital mental health resources and services and to continuing the Administration's efforts to combat drug demand and the opioid crisis.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
First Lady Melania Trump
Second Lady Karen Pence
Kellyanne Conway, 
Joe Grogan, 
Jim Carroll, 
Tim Pataki, 
Secretary Alex Azar,
Secretary Robert Wilkie, 
Dr. Elinore McCance-Katz,
400 executives and leaders from mental health advocacy, policy, and provider organizations nationwide
See above subject line.
Same.
We were given a 60-heads up at 1823.
It is being carried live on 
, C-SPAN, perhaps other places.
The president left the briefing room at 1846, leaving Vice President Mike Pence, Sec of Labor Scalia and Drs. Fauci and Birx to handle more questions.
Vice President Pence, Labor Sec Scalia and Doctors Birx and Fauci wrapped up at 1928.
A travel/photo lid was announced at 1930.
Stay safe, all.