

to understand," President Trump wrote on Twitter this afternoon. "We are at war with an invisible enemy, but that enemy is no match for the spirit and resolve of the American people."

He's right. Thanks to the dedication of our doctors, nurses, and scientists...as well as the love, patriotism, and determination of our citizens...no country is better prepared to meet this challenge than America. No nation on Earth will emerge stronger and more united than ours.

 is leaving no stone unturned in its unprecedented response. Today, the President announced more groundbreaking steps to slow the spread of the virus and help every American community brave the storm:

President Trump held a phone meeting today with 130 CEOs to hear directly what they need to respond to this crisis. Defeating this virus will take a historic partnership between our public and private sectors. The Trump Administration is leading that charge.

that our nation always rises to the occasion when staring down uncertain and trying times. The American people are proving that once again now...and the President couldn't be prouder, Vice President Mike Pence wrote in 
.

"In the weeks ahead, President Trump and this administration will continue to take strong action to protect the American people, and we will continue to build on the partnerships that we've forged with state and local governments, as well as with the scientific and business communities," he said.

"But for all of these important steps, there is no substitute for the action of the American people."



 


 

 
What Is Social Distancing? 
 
	

 


 President Trump issued a national call to action: Use the next 15 days to slow the spread of Coronavirus and protect our most vulnerable citizens from illness.

Many of the common-sense steps he outlined are simple, such as washing your hands regularly, avoiding large gatherings, and working from home if possible. But as health experts explain, small actions by each of us can lead to a massive collective impact.

 for example, is one of the most important actions every American can take. Dr. Deborah Birx, the Administration's Coronavirus Response Coordinator, says that social distancing is "what we refer to when we ask people to stay six feet apart."

Why six feet apart? Because scientific evidence shows "that's how far your droplets can go when you sneeze or cough," Dr. Birx says.



SUBSCRIBE NOW

1600 Daily is the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.