Pool Reports by 
, 
I made it through the medical tent that guards the northwest gate, past the aide with the thermometer, and onto White House grounds with a temperature of 95.3 degrees. Temps are being taken, as is now protocol. But there were no delays and, while it is quieter and more sparse than usual, plenty of our colleagues are already present.
It is bright outside. It is Wednesday. I am your in-town print pooler.
The coronavirus briefing is set for 11:30AM. It will be live-streamed and on cable. I will do my best to pass along color, if any, that's not already visible on your television screen.
The president does not have any public events on his agenda. He has a phone call with airline executives (10AM), a business roundtable teleconference (10:45AM), a call with physicians (1:30PM), and a briefing with nurses (3:30PM).
Kellyanne Conway took questions for more than 15 minutes in the driveway from reporters who did their best to keep the gaggle spread out. It was, at times, hard to hear. Overall, she seemed optimistic about legislation making its way through Congress and about White House efforts to combat the coronavirus.
Asked about POTUS referring to coronavirus as "Chinese virus" on Twitter, Conway said "I think what the President is saying is that is where it was first started."
Asked about allegations that a White House staffer had called the coronavirus the "Kung Fu virus," Conway said that the journalist who reported that quote should name the aide--"Why don't we go to the source?" That alleged remark, she added "is highly offensive."
"I'm married to an Asian," she continued, before saying that she wasn't going to engage in hypotheticals when the source was not known. Her own children, she noted, are of Asian descent.
Asked how long the proposed direct payments to adults affected by coronavirus might last, she referred reporters back to Treasury Sec. Mnuchin's remarks from yesterday. She said that the payments "would be means-tested."
Asked about restrictions on travel between the US and Canada, she said calling it a closed border was "charged language." The action was, instead, she said, the result of "a mutual agreement between Canada and the US to stop non-essential travel."
These types of restrictions, she said, should not be thought of as "a punishment to any country."
Asked about POTUS highlighting West Virginia's lack of coronavirus cases, Conway said that "there is an acceleration of testability testing going on in this country." She was careful to note that as more testing begins, as the task force has said, more cases will be discovered.
I can send the audio to any reporter who requests it, after the briefing concludes.
A link to video of the gaggle with Conway can be found here: 
White House just announced a second schedule change: Briefing will now be held at noon.
White House announced a lunch lid until 3:15pm.
Pool was called into cabinet room just now for nurses event.
POTUS discussed how "we are using the full power of government in response to the Chinese virus."
He says FDA news conference will be tomorrow.
Leaving room now after about five minutes.
More TK.
White House passes along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will lead a meeting between members of the White House Coronavirus Taskforce and representatives of American nurses.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Ambassador Debbie Birx,
Tim Pataki,
Secretary Alex Azar,
Administrator Seema Verma, 
Dr. Robert Redfield,
Robyn Begley,
David Benton,
Theresa Davis,
Debbie Hatmaker,
David Hebert, 
Ron Krause,
Cara Krulewitch,
Dave Mason, 
Suzanne Miyamoto,
Randall Moore II,
Brenda Nevidjon,
Dr. Deborah Trautman,
 
The president spoke briefly about combatting "the Chinese virus," before going around the room for introductions. He repeated many of his earlier sentiments about national preparedness.
POTUS teased the FDA press conference that he tweeted about earlier today. He said that it "will be very interesting," that it will happen tomorrow, and that "the FDA will be working very very hard, and I appreciate what they're doing."
POTUS also said that "it has been amazing to see the way that countries come together--its tremendous spirit. Even Republicans and Democrats are getting together, for the most part, but they're getting together. So that's a good thing to see."
Vice president Pence made brief remarks as well, telling the assembled healthcare providers that their service in combatting the coronavirus is appreciated and that their safety is "in the forefront of the president's mind."
Shouted questions went unanswered.
The White House passes along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada. The two leaders discussed the coronavirus pandemic and the close cooperation on efforts to combat the virus, including the agreement to reduce movement across the United States-Canada border to essential travel only. President Trump and Prime Minister Trudeau agreed it was important to preserve supply chains and trade, regardless of travel restrictions.
The White House has called a travel / photo lid.
White House passes along the following:
Today, President Donald J. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence, and members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force spoke by telephone with American physicians, and later in person with American nurses, about the response to COVID-19. President Trump thanked them for their tireless work on the front lines. The President reiterated that American medical professionals are the heroes we trust to save lives during this pandemic. The physicians and nurses thanked the President for his decisive action to cut regulation on Medicare telehealth, and for empowering States and the private sector to develop testing, treatments, and vaccines. All participants agreed that no resource should be spared to protect American patients. The Administration is doing everything possible to ensure the full weight of the Federal Government is behind the response to this pandemic, but also underscored that health providers need to work closely with State and local leaders to ensure their needs are met and noresources are spared.