Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, everyone. Happy Saturday. I am your in-town print pooler today. The president has no public events on his schedule, but there is a coronavirus task force briefing scheduled for 12 pm.
I will provide any updates throughout the day and, as always, let me know if you have any questions.
We were just told overhead that the task force briefing will begin at 12:45.
They have set up video monitors behind the podium. Someone came through before the briefing to take the temperatures of everyone in the room-- the green stickers you may notice on reporters' shirts indicate their temperature was taken.
The briefing will be on camera, but your pooler will send anything notable from offscreen.
Another overhead announcement -- briefing (originally scheduled for 12 pm) pushed to 1 pm
Two minute warning to the coronavirus task force briefing was called at 12:58 pm
A reminder that the briefing will be televised, so your pooler will not be sending quotes and updates from it.
POTUS left the briefing room at 2:17 pm. Briefing is ongoing with Vice President Mike Pence, HUD Sec Ben Carson, Anthony Fauci, and others.
The coronavirus task force briefing concluded at 2:28 pm. (President Trump had left the room a few minutes earlier, as noted in the previous pool report.)
Passing along from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of Mexico. The two leaders discussed the coronavirus pandemic and the close United States-Mexico cooperation on efforts to combat the virus, including their agreement on measures to reduce movement across the United States-Mexico border to essential travel only. President Trump and President Lopez Obrador agreed on the importance of preserving trade and critical services, regardless of travel restrictions.
We have a travel/photo lid at 3:39 pm.
Enjoy the rest of your weekend (with responsible social distancing)!
Passing along from the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert Wilkie spoke by telephone with leaders of veterans service organizations about the whole-of-government response to COVID-19. The President thanked those devoted to serving America's 18 million veterans and assured them that his Administration will do whatever is necessary to win this war. The President noted his unprecedented actions to protect American veterans, including establishing 19 VA emergency operation centers throughout the country, restricting visitor access to VA community living centers, and maximizing the use of VA Telehealth. The President said that he and our country are inspired by our Nation's veterans to make shared sacrifices to defeat America's newest enemy.
President Donald J. Trump
Secretary Robert Wilkie, Jr., Department of Veterans Affairs
Jennifer Korn, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Dana Adkins, President and CEO, Military Officers Association of America
Nate Anderson, Executive Director, Concerned Veterans of America
Carl Blake, Executive Director, Paralyzed Veterans of America
Bob Carey, Chief Advocacy Officer, The Independence Fund
Joe Chenelly, Executive Director, AMVETS
Eric Eversole, President, Hiring Our Heroes – U.S. Chamber of Commerce
B.J. Lawrence, Executive Director, Veterans of Foreign Wars
Michael Linnington, CEO, Wounded Warrior Project
Jared Lyon, President and CEO, Student Veterans of America
Chanin Nuntavong, Executive Director, The American Legion
Randy Reese, Executive Director, Disabled American Veterans
Ernie Rivera, National Adjutant, Military Order of the Purple Heart
Sarah Verardo, CEO, The Independence Fund
Rick Weidman, Executive Director, Vietnam Veterans of America