Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on this dreary and quiet St. Patrick's Day in Washington.
Once again, reporters and White House staff had their temperatures taken before passing through the Northwest gate today and we're trying our best to adhere to social distancing recommendations by spacing out seats in the briefing room.
The president does not have any open events on his schedule (copied below) but I'll keep you posted on any and all changes…
9:30AM: THE PRESIDENT participates in a phone call with Restaurant Executives on COVID-19 Response
Oval Office
Closed Press
2:00PM: THE PRESIDENT meets with Tourism Industry Executives on COVID-19 Response
Cabinet Room
Closed Press
3:30PM: THE PRESIDENT participates in a phone call with Supply Retailers and Wholesalers on COVID-19 Response
Oval Office
Closed Press
4:30PM: THE PRESIDENT meets with the Secretary of State
Oval Office
Closed Press
From Judd Deere –
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone with restaurant executives representing hundreds of thousands of hardworking Americans about the response to COVID-19. The executives thanked President Trump and his Administration for the whole-of-government response and for his efforts to ensure the public has the most accurate and up-to-date information. The President reminded the restaurants that they can help flatten the curve and slow the spread of this virus in communities across the country by encouraging their customers to use drive-thru, pickup, or delivery options. All of the executives committed their restaurants to this critical guideline and assured the President they fully intend to continue feeding their communities through these other innovative avenues. President Trump thanked the participants for moving quickly to implement this change and agreed to stay in close communication on this public-private partnership to protect our businesses and the public.
President Donald J. Trump
Secretary Steven Mnuchin, 
Larry Kudlow, 
Tim Pataki, 
Richard Allison, 
Dan Cathy, 
John Chidsey, 
Jose Cil, 
Robert Cresanti, 
David Deno, 
Joe Erlinger, 
David Gibbs, 
AJ Kumaran, 
Gene Lee, 
Rob Lynch, 
Todd Penegor, 
Matt Shay, 
The briefing is beginning now.
Attendees across the briefing room stage include:
President Trump
Vice President Pence
Sec Steve Mnuchin
Dr. Anthony Fauci
Dr. Deborah Birx
Adm. Brett Giroir
HHS Alex Azar
CMS Seema Verma
FDA's Stephen Hahn
Pool was just called, presumably for the President's meeting with Tourism Industry Executives on COVID-19 Response.
The pool is having to get our temperature taken before going into the meeting.
More TK.
Waiting to go into meeting.
From Judd Deere —
President Trump and Vice President Pence will meet with tourism industry executives, including hotel chains, theme parks, and travel associations. The industry plays a vital role in the safety of the traveling public, their guests, and their employees. The President will discuss the federal government's whole-of-government response to COVID-19 and ways the Administration can continue to partner with the industry to keep Americans safe and healthy.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Larry Kudlow,
Marc Short, 
Tim Pataki, 
Secretary Wilbur Ross, 
Justin Muzinich,
Roger Dow, 
Chip Rogers, 
Jon Bortz, 
Elie Maalouf, 
Christopher Nassetta, 
Arne Sorenson, 
Richard Bates,
Mark Hoplamazian, 
John Sprouls, 
Patrick Pacious, 
David Kong, 
Jim Murren, President & CEO, MGM
Inside Cabinet Room —
President Trump began by thanking the efforts of his admin and the travel industry.
"Thank you very much we have tourism industry executives...the true leaders of our tourism and hospitality industries," Trump said.
"We know your industries are among the hardest hit," Trump said.
"We are going to come out stronger than ever before."
The president is going over the broad brushstrokes of the plan being considered in Congress.
"We literally had the strongest economy on earth," Trump said, noting over 124 countries have been affected. "Unbelievable."
Trump said he asked SBA lending to go up To $50 billion, "and actually more."
The president is now having execs go around the room and speak. Hilton is to Trump's left, VP is to Trump's right. Wilbur Ross is seated behind.
"All over the world it is a disaster," Trump noted after Hilton spoke.
More TK.
President Trump, whose family runs hotels around the world, interjected to ask questions of the execs as they went around the table and explained their financial circumstances.
One exec explained the chain effect of events and flights being cancelled. "The collective impact is quite significant…now we are seeing occupancy below 10%.
"When this ends do you see a quick build up?" Trump asked. "It depends on how confident people are to get back on planes and travel."
As the execs were speaking, VP Pence was making notes all over the points in front of him.
Bates from Disney said employee retention is the most important, and second is liquidity.
Bates said he likes an "Employee-employer payroll tax holiday."
"Is that what you like of the scenarios?" Trump said.
Bates said he likes all of them, and a lot.
"Most direct, not as quick, but most direct," Trump replied.
Beyond Sec. Ross and the VP, I spotted only two other admin officials in the room, but could not recognize them.
Q: How much money for checks?
"That's all being figured out now, and we're also helping industries like Boeing, we have to help Boeing, the airline industry. It wasn't their fault. We will do that, we will be doing it. We're adding it up. It will be fine, it will come back very quickly once we're finished with our war with the virus."
Q: Payroll tax holiday…can we afford something that bil?
"Well we can definitely afford but the question is do we want to go through payroll, or do we want to – there are other ways to do it and we're determining it with the Senate the Senate and House."
Q: What's your message to furloughed employees?
"Well the message is that this was something that happened it is nobody's fault...It happened and we're going to take care of it, we'll be bigger, stronger and better than ever before."
Pool was ushered out.
A lunch lid was called until 3:30p.
At 6:00p a travel/photo lid was called.
Correcting the number on this final pool report to #10.
Happy St. Patrick's Day (enjoy your Guinness at home!)
From Judd Deere —
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone with the executives of industrial supply retailers and wholesalers about the national response to COVID-19. The President thanked the participants for providing Americans the goods they rely on every day and asked them to extend his thanks to the incredible employees who are working tirelessly to keep store shelves well-stocked. The executives thanked President Trump and his Administration for their work during this time and for leading an all-of-America response to this pandemic. Also discussed was the benefit from the Trump Administration's lifting of federal restrictions on the trucking industry to allow maximum efficiency throughout the distribution network. The President and the executives agreed that American supply chains are the most powerful in the world and that continued cooperation and coordination between the private sector and all levels of government is essential to mitigate the effects of this pandemic. The leadersdiscussed that it is important for private sector leaders to work closely with state and local officials.
President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
Marc Short, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Ambassador Debbie Birx, M.D., White House Coronavirus Coordinator
Tim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director, Office of Public Liaison
Bill Abington, Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Medline Industries Inc.
Peter Arvan, President and CEO, POOLCORP
John Barrett, Executive Director, International Sanitary Supply Association (ISSA)
Jeff Bezos, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Amazon
Steve Collis, Chairman, President, and CEO, AmerisourceBergen
Chester Davis Jr, President and CEO, Healthcare Distribution Alliance
Marvin Ellison, CEO, Lowes
Saul Factor, President, Smith Drug Co/Div JM Smith Corp
Maria Ffolkes, CEO, TriMark USA
Erik Gershwind, President and CEO, MSC Industrial Supply Co.
Joe Grieshaber, Senior Vice President of Merchandising, The Kroger Co.
Thomas Hartland-Mackie, President and CEO, City Electric Supply
John Hartmann, CEO, True Value Hardware
Roman Heini, Chairman, Lidl US
Claude Hornsby, CEO, MORSCO
Mike Kaufmann, CEO, Cardinal Health
Steve LeClair, CEO, Core & Main LP
DG Macpherson, Chairman and CEO, W.W. Grainger, Inc.
Kathy Mazzarella, Chairman, President and CEO, Graybar Electric Co. Inc.
Jim McCool, CEO, Bunzl North America
John Menard, President, Menard Inc.
Craig Menear, Chairman President and CEO, The Home Depot
Tammy Miller, CEO, Border States Electric
Matthew Rowan, President and CEO Health Industry Distributors Association (HIDA)
Rick Schwartz, Chairman, Winsupply
Kevin Short, CEO, ORS Nasco and MEDCO
Dan Starr, President and CEO, Do it Best Corp.
John Sullivan, Senior Vice and General Counsel, Costco Wholesale Corp.
Rob Taylor, President, Sonepar, North America
Robert Tillis, CEO, Imperial Dade
John Tisera, President and CEO, Johnstone Supply
John Turner, President, CEO, Gypsum Management and Supply
Liz Uihlein, President, Uline Company
Dirk Van Dongen, President and CEO, National Association of Wholesaler- Distributors
Jon Vrabely, President and CEO, Huttig Building Products Inc.
Douglas York, President, CEO, Ewing Irrigation Products