

This afternoon, President Trump and the White House Coronavirus Task Force issued new guidelines to help protect Americans during the global Coronavirus outbreak.

are simple to follow but will have a resounding impact on public health. While the President leads a nationwide response, bringing together government resources and private-sector ingenuity, every American can help slow the virus' spread and keep our most high-risk populations safe:

 build on the CDC's general recommendations to help prevent spread of the virus. Americans should continue practicing strict personal hygiene, including washing hands regularly for at least 20 seconds at a time and wiping down surfaces in the home often.

Even if you are young and otherwise healthy, you are at risk...and your activities can increase the risk of contracting the Coronavirus for others. Everyone can do their part.

 to protect your family and your community than by arming yourself with 
.



declared a National Emergency in response to the Coronavirus on Friday, freeing up more than $42 billion in resources for states and localities.

The emergency declaration will give healthcare providers on the front lines of this pandemic the flexibility they need to respond. President Trump continues to cut through every piece of unnecessary Washington red tape that may hinder response efforts, and he is continuing to make every Federal resource available to those who need it.

 and our entire team when I say how grateful we are for governors all across the country and the seamless partnership that we have forged with them and with state health officials," Vice President Mike Pence said yesterday.

"We also want to express great appreciation to the American people. Not surprisingly, it is inspiring to see the way tens of millions of Americans are responding with compassion [and] with common sense."



 


SUBSCRIBE NOW

1600 Daily is the White House's evening newsletter. Subscribe now to get breaking news from President Trump before anyone else.