Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning.
At this time, POTUS has no public events on the schedule.
At 2:30 he participates in a phone call with network service providers.
Also on the schedule is a 5 p.m. briefing by the Coronavirus Task Force. Guidance says it will be in the briefing room.
This came from Judd Deere:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey. President Trump and President Erdogan discussed ongoing efforts to combat the coronavirus in the United States and Turkey. The two leaders agreed to work closely together on the international campaign to defeat the virus and bolster the global economy. The leaders also discussed critical regional and bilateral issues. President Trump and President Erdogan agreed it is more important now than ever for countries in conflict, particularly Syria and Libya, to adhere to ceasefires and work toward resolution."
Judd Deere sent this out:
"Today, President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump spoke with Their Majesties King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain. The President and the First Lady expressed their condolences for those who have lost their lives to the coronavirus in Spain, and reaffirmed that the United States stands with the Spanish people in the fight against the pandemic. The leaders discussed the latest efforts to combat the coronavirus and agreed to work closely together in the days and weeks ahead. The President and the First Lady look forward to welcoming Their Majesties to the White House after the virus is defeated."
This from Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke by telephone with leaders of American network service providers on the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. President Trump thanked them and their staffs for their tireless work to keep Americans connected during this time of social distancing. While Americans are using the internet to work, learn, shop, and connect with loved ones at unprecedented rates, our free-market based networks remain strong, secure, and the envy of the world. The President thanked these leaders for not only rising to the increased demand, but extending services to all Americans at no additional cost and for waiving bills and late fees for those experiencing financial hardship. President Trump thanked network service providers for joining other industries like manufacturing, banking, technology, and healthcare to answer his call for an all-of-America response to this pandemic.
President Donald J. Trump
Christopher Liddell, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Coordination
Ivanka Trump, Advisor to the President
Jared Kushner, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor
Larry Kudlow, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic Council
Robert Blair, Assistant to the President and Special Representative for International Telecommunications Policy
Tim Pataki, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Public Liaison
Aryeh Bourkoff, CEO, LionTree
Michel Combes, CEO, Sprint
Dexter Goei, CEO, Altice USA
John Malone, Chairman, Liberty Media
Brian Roberts, CEO, Comcast Corporation
Thomas Rutledge, CEO, Charter Communications
Mike Sievert, Incoming CEO, T-Mobile US
Randall Stephenson, CEO, AT&T
Hans Vestberg, CEO, Verizon Communications
Lower press has confirmed POTUS tweet advised us that the briefing will begin at 5:15.
Your pooler has had her temperature taken for the second time today and advises you to tune into 
 for quotes.
Forgive the lack of number in previous report you may have received.
Lower press has confirmed POTUS tweet advised us that the briefing will begin at 5:15 p.m.
Your pooler has had her temperature taken for the second time today and advises you to tune into 
 for quotes.
Briefing ended about five minutes ago and we have a travel/photo lid.
Charts from the briefing.