Pool Reports by 
, 
Till 2:30 pm.
>From Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. President Trump and President Putin discussed the latest developments and efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The two leaders agreed to work closely together through the G20 to drive the international campaign to defeat the virus and reinvigorate the global economy. The leaders also discussed critical bilateral and global issues. President Trump and President Putin agreed on the importance of stability in global energy markets. Regarding Venezuela, President Trump reiterated that the situation in Venezuela is dire, and we all have an interest in seeing a democratic transition to end the ongoing crisis.
Just a reminder that briefing is still scheduled to begin at 5:00 pm. I will provide color, not quotes. Live TV and livestream from WH and major papers are available. We are gathering in Rose Garden.
Temps are being taken on our way in. Pink stickers for all who pass (which is everybody so far, as best I can tell). White House sound man has mic on a long boom so he is the only one handling it and he promises to keep it a safe distance from our mouths.--
Potus came out at 5:12 pm. Drs Fauci and Birx are here, as is VP Pence, CMS administrator Seema Verma, and HHS Secy Alex Azar.
Secy Azar introduced to speak first by Potus.
Briefing ended at 6:10 pm.
Also in attendance FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn, CEOs of Honeywell, Jockey, United Technologies, Proctor & Gamble, My Pillow.
Here are the CEOs who spoke at just-ended briefing:
Mike Lindell, My Pillow
Darius Adamczyk, Honeywell
Debra Waller, Jockey International
David S. Taylor, Procter & Gamble
Greg Hayes, United Technologies
Weather was beautiful, sunny, high 60s, a bit breezy (as POTUS noted, re his hair).
Called at 6:31 pm.
Good night!
>From Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy. President Trump and Prime Minister Conte discussed the latest developments and efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic. President Trump expressed his condolences for those who have lost their lives in Italy. The President reiterated the commitment of the United States to working with Italy and all of our European Allies and partners to stop the spread of the virus and get medical care to all of those in need. The President and the Prime Minister agreed to continue to cooperate closely, including through the G7 under United States leadership, as well as through the larger G20, to defeat the virus and boost the global economy.