



?


Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
51st Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
 U.S. Senator from Arkansas
partner with Kirkland & Ellis LLP
 U.S. Senator from Texas
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
 Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel of the U.S. Department of Justice
former Solicitor General of the United States
 U.S. Senator from Missouri
 Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Mexican States
Justice on the Supreme Court of Florida
 Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
 Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit
 Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President
Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit





"Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, released a list of potential Supreme Court nominees on Wednesday as part of an effort to quell concerns that he would not select conservative jurists... Mr. Trump said in a statement that his shortlist was 'representative of the kind of constitutional principles I value and, as president, I plan to use this list as a guide to nominate our next United States Supreme Court justices.' The Trump campaign did not share how it settled on the names, but Mr. Trump has previously said that he was seeking guidance from conservative groups such as the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation." (Alan Rappeport and Charlie Savage, "Donald Trump Releases List Of Possible Supreme Court Picks, 
, 5/18/16)

 "A divided Senate on Wednesday confirmed President Trump's 200th judicial nominee, a milestone that reflects the breakneck speed at which he and fellow Republicans have moved to create a legacy that will endure regardless of the outcome of this year's elections. On a largely party-line vote of 52 to 48, the Republican-led chamber approved the nomination of Cory Wilson of Mississippi to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, elevating another conservative judge to a lifetime appointment on the federal bench." (John Wagner, "Senate Confirms 200th Judicial Nominee From Trump, A Legacy that Will Last Well Beyond November, 
, 6/24/20)



("Judicial Appointment Tracker," 
, Accessed 9/9/20)

 ("Pace Of Confirmations," 
, Accessed 9/9/20)

 ("Pace Of Confirmations," 
, Accessed 9/8/20)



 "Three circuit courts – the 2nd, based in New York; the 3rd, based in Philadelphia; and the 11th, based in Atlanta – were dominated by Democratic presidents' nominees when Trump came into office. Now Republican presidents" nominees are in the majority in each." (Richard Wolf, "President Trump Has Transformed The Federal Courts, But John Roberts Still Leads Them," 
, 7/1/20)

 ("Composition Of The Federal Judiciary," 
, Accessed 9/9/20)






"Last December Mr. Biden said that he'd appoint judges who see the Constitution as a 'living document,' echoing his three-decade-old attacks on Bork and making clear that there would be no olive branch. Unlike Mr. Trump, however, he has no plans to release a list of potential nominees, knowing that anybody he names would hurt him politically." (Ilya Shapiro, Op-Ed, "Why Biden Won't Talk About Judges," 
, 9/3/20)



 "Joe Biden said in the Democratic debate he would demand that his appointees to the Supreme Court commit to upholding abortion rights. Asked if he would make support for Roe v. Wade a litmus test for nominees, Biden said yes. 'A litmus test on abortion relates to the fundamental values of the Constitution,' Biden said. 'A woman does have the right to choose. If they rule it to be unconstitutional, I will send to the United States Congress, and it will pass, I believe, a bill that legislates Roe v. Wade adjusted by Casey.'" (Cassidy Morrison, "Biden Endorses Abortion Litmus Test For Supreme Court Nominees," 
, 2/7/20)

 JOE BIDEN: "The people that I will appoint to the Court are people who have a view of the Constitution that it's a living document. (Joe Biden, Remarks At Iowa Campaign Event, 12/28/19)



