Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning on a crisp, overcast Sunday at the White House. Pool just received COVID tests.

POTUS currently has no public events on his schedule, but I'll update with additions as they come. As always, feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions. 


Pool was called to gather at 8:45am for an unscheduled movement-- 


Pool loaded in the vans at 8:50am.

POTUS walked out of the southern portico at 9:31am and jumped in a USSS SUV.

Motorcade is on the move as of 9:33am. 


Motorcade passed through the gates at Trump National 10:10am.

The usual coterie of pedestrians watched and filmed the motorcade along the route. Some offered thumbs up, some down.

One man, holding a Biden-Harris flag, stood on the entrance ramp to Rte. 66 as the motorcade left DC.

Dueling signs/flags were held outside the gates of the club... "TRUMP 2020, KEEP AMERICA GREAT"
"BIDEN-HARRIS"
"SURRENDER DONNIE"
"306 vs. 218"

Pool is now pulling into the adjacent strip mall to hold, hoping Lucia's will have to Masters playing. 


Pool loaded back into the vans at 12:55pm and headed back to the club at 1:00pm.

A few more of the president's supporters have gathered outside the gates, all of whom were waving Trump branded or US flags. Brief chants of "We love Trump!" and "Back the Blue, We love the Blue!" broke out at approximately 1:05pm. Some passing cars honked, drawing cheers from supporters

We're holding while POTUS wraps golf/lunch 


The crowd of Trump supporters outside the gates grew considerably in the hour or so we spent waiting. New additions include thin blue line flag, Gadsden flag, a handwritten "Voter Fraud" sign, and a man wearing a Trump inner tube.

A number of cars driving by antagonized the crowd, holding Biden-Harris signs out of open windows. A woman driving an orange VW Bug flashed a Trudeau salute.

The scene: 


USSS SUVs exited Trump National at 1:52pm. We've rejoined the motorcade and are rolling back to DC. One woman wearing a wig and ski boots yelled "we love him! We don't love you" through a bullhorn as the press vans drove past her. 


Motorcade drove through the WH gates at 2:33pm. Pool caught a glimpse of POTUS striding back into the residence 2:34pm.

Passing along some action shots of POTUS on the course today: 
 


... called at 3:30pm. Have a great rest of your Sunday, everyone.

Also, to those who asked, Trump's partner today appeared to be Kevin Morris, general manager of Trump National 