Pool Reports by 
, The 




?Greetings from the White House on a crisp and sunny day. POTUS has no public events scheduled.

Numerous people with 'Trump' flags and other regalia are in downtown Washington ahead of today's march. 


?Pool is holding in vans next to the south lawn, awaiting POTUS's departure to a location not yet officially disclosed. 


?POTUS emerged from the south portico at 10am wearing a red hat, blue jacket and blue trousers. He appeared to be holding a newspaper. He got inside the presidential limousine and the motorcade headed out to Pennsylvania Avenue.

It was greeted by applause, cheers, waving and whistles from hundreds of Trump supporters lining both sides of the street. They punched the air, took pictures with phones and held signs that included 'Best prez ever' and 'Stop the steal'.

The crowd also waved flags including 'Trump 2020: Keep America great', 'Trump 2020: No more bullshit', 'All aboard the Trump train!', 'Women for Trump' and 'Trump 2020: Pro life, pro God, pro gun'.

The motorcade passed the Willard Hotel and did a circuit of Freedom Plaza, where people had climbed on walls and other structures for a better view. Some ran excitedly after the motorcade. There were chants of "USA! USA!", "We want Trump! We want Trump!" and "Four more years! Four more years!"

Many people wore red, white and blue flag patterns. One man had on a t-shirt that said: "I'm deplorable." A stand had been set up to sell merchandise as if at a Trump rally. US park police were present. It was not possible to see how POTUS responded to the crowd. The motorcade is rolling on through Virginia. 


?POTUS's motorcade entered the grounds of the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, Virginia, at 10.43am.

Half a dozen supporters stood at one side of the entrance with Trump flags and the stars and stripes. About the same number of protesters stood on the opposite side with a big 'Biden Harris' sign and one that said: 'We voted. You're fired'. 


?Pool is now holding near the golf club at Lucia's Italian restaurant. 


?As pool continues to hold at Lucia's restaurant, Judd Deere, White House deputy press secretary, sent out the following:

READOUT OF THE UNITED STATES' PARTICIPATION IN THE EAST ASIA SUMMIT

Today, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Robert C. O'Brien participated in the East Asia Summit as President Donald J. Trump's Special Envoy. Ambassador O'Brien reaffirmed President Trump's vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific comprised of independent nations working side by side to promote and protect enduring prosperity and security. In addition, Ambassador O'Brien expressed concern regarding the actions of the People's Republic of China in the Mekong region and South China Sea that threaten peace, stability, and sovereignty. Ambassador O'Brien also announced the Billion Futures Scholars Fund -- which will bring more Association of Southeast Asian Nations students to the United States to study -- underscoring the United States' commitment to a bright, prosperous, and peaceful future for the Indo-Pacific for generations to come. 


?Pool is back outside the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling. There are now about 30 Trump supporters on the sidewalk outside waving flags and banners. One has a handwritten 'Stop the steal' sign. 


?Motorcade departed the Trump National Golf Club in Sterling at 2.26pm. Each vehicle was greeted by fervent cheers from supporters standing outside, but the press vans received some boos.

Motorcade is now rolling towards the White House. 


?POTUS returned to the White House at 3.07pm. There were cheers and whoops on 15th Street from flag-waving supporters on the corner near the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. 


?A travel/ photo lid was called at 4,01pm. 


Pool Reports by 
, 




?Apologies for missing this email four hours after the lid. The press office passed along this:

READOUT OF THE UNITED STATES – ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS SUMMIT

Today, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Robert C. O'Brien participated in the United States – Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit as President Donald J. Trump's Special Envoy. Ambassador O'Brien shared a message on behalf of President Trump welcoming the 5^th anniversary of the United States-ASEAN Strategic Partnership. Ambassador O'Brien highlighted the tremendous benefit our partnership has brought to the prosperity, security, and well-being of over one billion people in the United States and ASEAN nations. In addition, Ambassador O'Brien reaffirmed the United States' longstanding commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. 