Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning and happy Veterans Day. Pool has been tested ahead of the scheduled 10:45am departure for Arlington National Cemetery. It's raining steadily, with no end in sight.

The 11:00am "National Day of Observance" wreath laying ceremony is the only public event on POTUS' schedule for today. I'll send an alert on any potential updates as soon as they're received. As always, feel free to reach out to me directly with questions. 


... at 11:32am. The rain has picked up, and we're waiting for POTUS and FLOTUS-- 


Pool's view was blocked and did not catch a glimpse of POTUS and FLOTUS entering the Beast, but the motorcade left the WH grounds at 10:58am for the short drive to VA. 


Pool arrived at the cemetery at 11:06am. Numerous camera crews filmed the motorcade as it passed, and several pedestrians waved from just inside the gates. Gun/cannon salutes sounded as motorcade drove toward the Tomb.

The rain has slowed to a slight drizzle, and pool has been informed we'll be running out of the vans to setup ahead of the ceremony. 


The rain has picked up again. While pool got into position, an ambulance was brought to the rear of the amphitheater. A man who appeared to have hit his head (the marble is very wet and slick) was escorted off via stretcher. Pool did not recognize the man and is pinging WH for details

Here's the scene as of now: 
 


POTUS and VP Mike Pence arrived at 10:24am. The band played the National Anthem immediately after as POTUS stood and saluted . FLOTUS and Second Lady Karen Pence are also in attendance, per WH.

Pool spotted National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien and NSC chief of staff Keith Kellog at 11:21am (h/t Reuters)

Also — a preliminary apology for typos and misspellings. The rain is not cooperating with phone's touchscreen 


POTUS approached the wreath and stood for a moment of silence before retreating and again saluting as a lone trumpeter played TAPS.

The ceremony concluded at 11:30am. Pool is heading back to the vans 


Motorcade is WH bound as of 11:35am. Military families saluted as we passed, with more gun salutes ringing in the background.

Pool did not see POTUS, FLOTUS, VP, or Second Lady enter the motorcade but would be shocked to discover we'd left without them. 


Motorcade drove through the gates at 11:47am. POTUS and co. walked into the residence at 11:48am. -- 


... until 2:30pm 


WH just passed along participants at this morning's wreath laying ceremony. See below

President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
 Secretary Robert Wilkie,
MG Omar Jones,


ATTENDEES:
First Lady Melania Trump
Second Lady Karen Pence
Acting Secretary Christopher Miller,
Secretary Eugene Scalia, 
Secretary Alex Azar,
Secretary Elaine Chao,
Secretary Dan Brouillette,
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, 
Director John Ratcliffe,
Acting Deputy Secretary Pam Powers, 
GEN Mark Milley, 
Hollyanne Milley, 
Gen John Hyten, 
Gen David Berger,
GEN James McConville,
ADM Michael Gilday,
Gen John Raymond,
Gen Charles Brown,
GEN Daniel Hokanson, 
ADM Karl Schultz, 
CMSgt Ramón Colón-López, 
Julia Wilkie, 
 


... was called at 7:52pm.

Have a great rest of your evening, everyone. 