Pool Reports by 
, 




It is a crisp and sunny morning at the White House.

The Press Office informs me POTUS did participate in the virtual Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Economic Leaders' Meeting at 6:50 a.m. in the Situation Room. It was closed press.

Trade advisor Peter Navarro talked at the sticks (or stick) at 8:40 after appearing on Maria Bartiromo's show. He called Democratic governors' lock downs "an aggressive tax on the poor" and "a regressive tax" that hurts low-income workers.

Navarro also praised the rapid mobilization of vaccines as one of Trump's "greatest legacies."

You can watch here



At 2:30 POTUS will talk about lower prescription drug prices in the Roosevelt Room.

Your print pooler was COVID tested and is still here. 


Update in guidance

Office of the Press Secretary
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
November 20, 2020

UPDATED DAILY GUIDANCE AND PRESS SCHEDULE FOR
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 2020

UPDATE: Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany holds a press briefing at 12:00PM. 


Your pooler missed most of Larry Kudlow's remarks at the sticks, but the able Sara Cook of CBS News tells us that Kudlow discussed Trump's remarks to APEC this morning -- which involved COVID, economy recovery and vaccines.

Look for remarks, which concluded five minutes ago, on c-Span. 


Two minute warning given at 12;07. 


Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany is talking.

You know what to do. 


Briefing is over.

For those of you who didn't figure it out, that was Playboy's Brian Karem shouting questions. 


Lunch lid until 2 p.m. 


POTUS just tweeted that there will be a news conference at 2:30 on reduced drug pricing. 


Press office informs your pooler that the news conference about which POTUS tweeted will not be in the briefing room or the Rose Garden but in the Roosevelt Room.

Translation: In other words, it may not be a news conference. 


UPDATE: the President's 2:30PM remarks will now be in the James S. Brady Briefing Room. 


Two minute warning called at 2:34 


At 3:00 p.m. POTUS left the briefing room without taking questions. 


The President's meeting with the Michigander state lawmakers about state electors apparently is over. It never was on the official schedule, but PressSec did acknowledge the meeting would take place and said that it was not an "advocacy meeting" during her noon briefing and that no one from the campaign would attend.

Also the White House released statements on First Lady event in the Rose Garden and POTUS remarks to APEC.

Travel photo lid called at 6:05. 