

 "82,000 jobs Iowa lost in this pandemic and still they have not come back."

 Iowa has added back a record 104,000 jobs back in the last five months and did so at a faster pace than under the "recovery" Joe Biden led.

 "The [Social Security Administration's] actuary says if the change occurs as he [Trump] is promoting, it will bankrupt Social Security by 2023. Go home and tell your parents, your grandparents that. That's a fact!"

: This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.

"Folks, but there is nothing worse, in my view, then the way he [Trump] has spoken about those who served in uniform. He called them 'losers and suckers.'"

This attack is false; at least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:

: "The Atlantic story on @realDonaldTrump is total BS. I was actually there and one of the people part of the discussion - this never happened."
: "These are disgusting, grotesque, reprehensible lies. I was there in Paris and the President never said those things."
: "I was with POTUS in France, with Sarah, and have been at his side throughout it all. Complete lies by 'anonymous sources'…"
: "I was on this trip. The Atlantic bit is not true. Period."
: "'I didn't hear that,' Mr. Bolton said in an interview. 'I'm not saying he didn't say them later in the day or another time but I was there for that discussion.'"
: The accusation is a "despicable lie … The president deeply wanted to attend the memorial event in question and was deeply displeased by the bad weather call."
 has said the story is false.
: "I was with the President the morning after the scheduled visit. He was extremely disappointed that arrangements could not be made to get him to the site, and that the trip had been cancelled."
: "I can attest to the fact that there was a bad weather call in France, and that the helicopters were unable to safely make the flight."
: "I did not hear POTUS call anyone losers when I told him about the weather."
: "@TheAtlantic story is not true. It has become a very dangerous time when anonymous sources are believed above all else, & no one knows their motivation. This is not journalism - It is activism. And it is a disservice to the people of our great nation."
: "In my presence, POTUS has NEVER denigrated any member of the U.S. military or anyone in service to our country. And he certainly did not that day, either. Let me add, he was devastated to not be able to go to the cemetery at Belleau Wood. In fact, the next day, he attended and spoke at the ceremony in Suresnes in the pouring rain."
: "I was the host of the event discussed by the false and despicable article published in The Atlantic magazine on 3 September. On 10 November 2018, I was at the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery awaiting the arrival of President Trump. As a former Army infantryman who has flown on many helicopters, I knew that morning the weather was bad and the ceiling was too low for a safe landing that day. When the President's visit was appropriately canceled due to weather, I received word also that he was upset he would not be able to make the wreath-laying visit and to pay his respect to the 2300 fallen soldiers and Marines interred there. … Those who know President Trump know that the anonymous smears peddled by The Atlantic have no basis in fact or reality, and do a terrible disservice to journalism and to our veterans, living and deceased." 
: "Why should you pay more in taxes than Donald Trump, who paid $750?"

This is false; President Trump has personally paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.

A Trump Organization spokesman has directly said 
 in 
' reporting on the President's taxes.
The 
'reporting is incorrect; the President paid 
, not $750.
The 
article ignores millions of dollars the President has paid in payroll, property, and other taxes, along with state and local taxes he has paid.
I guarantee, I give you my word as a Biden, no one making less than $400,000 a year will see a penny raised in taxes."

: Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will 
, including those making under $400,000.

Trumpgot a Supreme Court Justice, for overwhelming reason. By the way, never before has there been a hearing on a Supreme Court Justice once an election began. It's never occurred."

 History is on the side of filling the Supreme Court vacancy now, and Joe Biden previously said the President had an obligation to name a nominee, even in an election year.

"I'll do what [Trump's] been unable to do. I'll mobilize a true international effort to stop China's abuses. So, we could strengthen manufacturing and farming across the country. I'm going to hold China accountable, which he hasn't from the pandemic on."

Biden has a history of being soft on China.

"[Trump] waved the white flag and surrendered to this virus."

President Trump took action to combat the coronavirus beginning in January, and his Administration has led an unprecedented response to protect American lives.

: "On his watch, ethanol margins have tanked and Iowa's manufacturing facilities are idle and even closing."

: While the Obama-Biden administration hurt the ethanol industry, President Trump has upheld his commitment to Iowa's ethanol producers.

: "… you can keep your private insurance if you like it or choose Medicare-like public option."

Biden's public option will end up destroying the private health insurance that 180 million Americans rely on, crowding out these plans with a subsidized government-run plan.



: "Donald Trump fails to condemn white supremacy"

This is an egregious lie and demonstrably false; President Trump 
 and clearly condemned white supremacy 
.



"…the Trump tax loopholes that incentivized companies that shipped jobs overseas…"

, saying President Trump's tax cuts are "believed to have broadly reduced incentives to invest overseas."

One 
 found the Trump tax cuts were "largely effective" at making it less attractive for U.S. companies to invest offshore.
Since the tax cuts took effect, U.S. companies have brought back 
 back they were holding overseas.
President Trump's 
 includes prohibiting businesses from replacing U.S. workers with low-wage foreign workers, creating "Made in America" tax credits, and cutting taxes to keep jobs in the U.S.
"Right now, by the way, the deficit with China is higher than it was in our administration."

This is false; the trade deficit with China in 2019 was down from 2016, the last year of the Obama-Biden Administration.

Fact-checkers have 
 
 
 claims from Biden, saying they are 
 and 
: "When I talk about my economic plan, it's not some liberal think tank who talks about how good it is. Moody's, a Wall Street, major firm pointed out, after looking at my plan for an economy and his, that we will create 18.6 million jobs under the Biden plan."

: The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of 
 economic policies.

In 2016, 
 estimated then-candidate Trump's economic plans would lead to higher unemployment rates under every scenario; in fact, the 
 under President Trump before the pandemic hit.
Moody's drastically 
 and the 
 that has happened under President Trump.