Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning,

It's a brisk, rainy fall day at the White House.

White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows spoke to reporters briefly in the driveway after a Fox News interview.

He was asked about VP Pence Chief of Staff Marc Short's positive coronavirus diagnosis, and was very brief in his remarks.

He said only: "We wish him well – he's been quarantining these last few days…"

Another reporter shouted: "Why is Pence traveling – that seems insane?"

And another asked, "should anyone who is in close contact with the vice president be quarantining?"

Meadows ignored the questions.

I'll be your in-town print pooler for today.

We're expecting a 10:30 pm POTUS departure to Andrews AFB. President Trump will be traveling to New Hampshire and Maine.
He is scheduled to be back at the White House for a Halloween event at 6:15 p.m. tonight.

This pooler was tested for coronavirus and is awaiting results. 


White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows had another interview, this one with CNN's Jake Tapper.

Afterward he spoke to reporters, again very briefly, noting that WH doctors have cleared Vice President Mike Pence to travel after his chief of staff, Marc Short, was diagnosed with COVID.

Asked again about Short's COVID positive diagnosis, Meadows said he's "doing well. Hopefully the prognosis will be really good."

A reporter asked whether he's worried about the vice president catching it.

Meadows responded: "Obviously, I'm worried about everybody being affected, not just the VP."

Pool asked if the VP should be traveling.

Meadows responded: "He was cleared by the doctors to travel." 


?After his interview with CBS Face the Nation, National Security Advisor Robert O'Brien took questions from reporters in the White House driveway on VP Pence's staffers who have tested positive, on violence in Afghanistan, and the U.S. response to reports of Russian and Iranian election interference:

On VP Chief of Staff Marc Short's COVID Diagnosis, he said he talked to Short this morning and he's doing "well," said his "symptoms are mild." He said he and the president wish Short and others in the VP's office who are COVID positive "a speedy recovery." He said VP Pence and the second lady have both tested negative.

"It's ripping through this country, but it's also ripping through Europe in a way that it never has before."

On whether Pence should be traveling: "The vp is following all the rules from the CDC, and social distancing he's tested negative now several times." Called Pence "an essential worker" and said people are going out to vote.

"Essential workers going out and campaigning and voting are about as essential as things we can do as Americans."

He was asked about the status of U.S. withdrawal amid a spate of new violence and reports this morning about a killing of an al Qaeda operative there, but O'Brien didn't respond directly. Instead, he highlighted US special forces and intelligence capabilities and noted that the Taliban is fighting ISIS there as well.

"There's going to be nowhere that's going to be safe for [terrorists groups] in Afghanistan. There's going to be nowhere they're safe from American special forces and from our intelligence operators. If you commit terrorism against American, our allies and our partners, you're at risk, and that's the message we're sending."

On new punishments for Russia and Iran for election interference:

He said "today or yesterday" the Treasury Dept. designated five more Iranians for sanctions, and the U.S. just designated the GRU for sanctions Thursday or Friday.

Said they'll keep looking at "further options."

"One of the problems we have with both Iran and Russia is that we have so many sanctions on those countries right now that there's very little left for us to do, but we're looking at every potential deterrence we can on those countries as well as others, including China and some countries that have not yet been mentioned that are trying to influence Americans on how to vote. It's unacceptable." 
[
] 


At 6:20 pm pool was escorted onto the south lawn. The South Portico column are adorned from top to bottom in huge red and orange autumn leaves and a large, "Halloween 2020" sign as dry ice fog emanated from the bottom corridors.

Members of the Marine Band, class in dark uniforms, are assembled up the steps. They were playing the theme song to Game of Thrones when we arrived and switched to Michael Jackson's Thriller.

POTUS and First Lady Melania came out to greet a parade of trick or treaters - children in costume with their families - who filed past in a parade.

Supporters shouted, "we love you" and two shouted "God bless you, Mr. President" and another cried out, "four more years!"

There was one little boy dressed as Pres. Trump who paused to take a photo in front of the first couple before a little girl with him pulled him away.

Some photos are attached. 


The president and the first lady waved and posed for photos for nearly 35 mins with costumed kids and their families streaming by.

Some more color: Kayleigh McEnany, carrying her 11-month old daughter dressed as a mouse, posed for a photo with POTUS and the first lady. They weren't wearing masks.

No one in McEnany's group (pictured in the previous group of photos I sent) was wearing a mask.

Most adults and children were wearing masks of some kind – Halloween or otherwise -- but there was a smattering of those who weren't wearing anything.

When a little boy dressed as Pres. Trump was pulled away from his photo shoot by another girl who appeared to be dressed like Melania, Trump commented, "He likes the press." 


?We had a lid at 7:15-ish. I was just informed it was called earlier. My apologies.

Another Halloween detail. In previous years, POTUs and the first lady handed out actual candy to children at the Halloween event. But this year – there were bags of goodies set up on tables off to the sides of the events -- that families picked up individually.

Have a good night! 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




?Good morning from the White House. I'll be your print pooler for the president's trip to New Hampshire and Maine. Members of the out of town pool were tested this morning for COVID-19.

Press loaded into vans on the north driveway, and we are rolling for JBA at 10:59 a.m. Your pooler could not see POTUS or other aides getting into their vehicles around the bend.

We are expecting to motorcade to and from JBA today while the White House prepares to host guests for Halloween at the South Portico this evening. It's also been raining all morning. 


?Motorcade arrived at the JBA tarmac at 11:20 a.m. after an uneventful drive and pulled up next to Air Force One a few moments later.

Pool spotted President Trump boarding holding a black umbrella over his head. He did not come over to talk to reporters. Judd Deere was also on the tarmac waiting to board, though your pooler could not spot other aides.

We are on the bigger plane today and the tail number is 28000. Air Force One is taxiing for takeoff at 11:30. We will be wheels up shortly for our first stop of the day in Londonderry, New Hampshire. 
[
] 


?President Trump took the stage at 12:50 p.m. and immediately began recounting his 2016 primary victory here.

His remarks are being live-streamed on CSPAN and elsewhere so I'll only send highlights and color.

Link: 


Thousands of supporters are packed in tightly here. It is 48 degrees. Mask use is more widespread on the risers directly behind where the president is speaking as of now. The vast majority of supporters elsewhere are not wearing masks, though some are.

The crowd cheered when Mark Meadows deplaned and walked over while we were waiting for POTUS. He gave them a thumbs up and said thank you.

Meadows, McEnany and other staffers were not wearing masks when they stepped off the plane. 


?The president concluded his remarks at 2:23 p.m. after speaking for just over 90 minutes. "YMCA" pulsed over the speakers as POTUS did his go to shimmy that by now you're all familiar with.

Some highlights:
Among the chants from the crowd today were "We love you" directed at POTUS, "tell the truth" directed at the media, and "Super-Trump" after the president said he felt like Superman upon being given an antibody treatment when he had COVID-19.

He mocked Joe Biden multiple times for calling a lid, he bashed the press for not turning cameras around to show the crowd, and he maintained the country is "rounding the turn" on the pandemic (Your pooler notes that the country has set records in recent days for confirmed cases.)

The president regaled the crowd with a long story about negotiations for an upgraded Air Force One.

He said his biggest concern about the coming election is the "fake ballots," noting he voted yesterday in person.

There were boos at the mention of "Barack Hussein Obama, Mitt Romney, Elizabeth Warren. Loud boos for Kamala Harris.

The president played videos highlighting Biden's past comments on raising taxes and social security, as well as one mocking some of his gaffes.

White House staff were standing several feet away from the crowd throughout the rally. Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino were seen wearing masks when they were chatting in close quarters with Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie. Kayleigh McEnany did not put on a mask during the rally. 


POTUS waved to the pool but did not come over to take questions after the rally. He first pumped at the top of the steps before boarding.Air Force One is taxiing for takeoff at 2:32 p.m. and we'll be wheels up shortly. We are headed for Bangor, Maine, but there aren't many details available on what the president will be doing once we get there.There are no events listed on the daily guidance or the president's campaign website to indicate what we'll be doing in Maine. I've reached out to the campaign for info but haven't heard back. Will pass along info as soon as we have it. 


?Air Force One touched down in Maine at 3:05 p.m. after an uneventful and brief flight, with more colorful fall foliage dotting the landscape on our way in.

The president made brief comments to the pool, but he was some distance away and it was difficult to hear. Pool will circle back when we have clarity on his comments.

We are motorcading at 3:17 and still in the dark on specifics for this stop, though your pooler would note that this local reporter is saying POTUS may be headed for an area orchard: 


?Motorcade arrived at Treworgy Family Orchards in Levant at 3:34. The route was dotted with onlookers, including many holding Trump/Pence signs or waving Trump flags.

There are hundreds of Trump supporters at the orchard, many of whom booed the press as we entered. One shouted "defund the media."

Service around the orchard is spotty but your pooler will send updates as frequently as possible.

Circling back on the POTUS comments from when we landed, the president didn't come all the way over the pool, instead stopping near the Beast before getting in. A reporter shouted a question about whether VP Pence should come off the trail. The president said "you'll have to ask him." POTUS hailed the size of the VP's rally crowds and said they've been socially distanced. Thanks to Katherine Faulders of ABC for helping clarify, and please check video for fuller quotes. 


?President Trump walked out to cheers from supporters. One man said they've been here for four hours prior to POTUS' arrival. The vast majority of people here are not wearing masks.

When POTUS emerged from the main barn there were chants of "USA" and "four more years." He walked right up to the crowd assembled, separated from them only by a row of pumpkins and gourds, and he began to sign hats, mocking the press as we looked on.

"They are the fake news they have no idea."

He talked up his action to aid the lobster industry, including opening up coastline, and he predicted a "red wave."

The sounds of baby goats were briefly audible in the background. 


?President Trump signed a pumpkin and joked "that'll be on eBay tonight." He said he planned to take a bag of apples back to the White House.

He took a megaphone to speak to the crowd, repeating that he "freed up 5,000 square miles of the ocean" for lobstering. As he spoke, a baby goat provided a soundtrack, baa-ing frequently.

"I'm very impressed, and I'm very impressed with Maine, and I hope we're going to do well."

"It's the biggest election our country's ever had. We will never be a socialist nation. So I just want to thank everybody."

He gave a final wave to the crowd before going back through the main barn and returning to the motorcade.

Two people in the crowd told the pool they'll vote for Susan Collins because they need to support Republicans.

Pool is now headed back to our bus at 3:57, with many booing and heckling as walk past. 


?Motorcade arrived back at the Bangor airport at 4:14 p.m. after an uneventful drive. POTUS had already boarded by the time pool got off the bus.

Upon boarding, a printout of a tweet from Polling USA was sitting on the seat of every reporter. It is attached below.

We are taxiing at 4:22 for our return flight to JBA. 


?Air Force One landed at a rainy JBA at 5:48 p.m. The flight was largely uneventful. Deputy press secretary Judd Deere popped in again to say hello. The Buccaneers-Raiders game played on the TV screens throughout. The president tweeted a few times while we were in the sky.

POTUS deplaned at 5:58 carrying an umbrella. He waved to the pool but did not respond to shouted questions before climbing into the Beast. We are motorcading back to the White House and are rolling at 6:01 p.m. 


Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 6:23 p.m. We drove past dozens of kids and their families lined up outside the White House in costumes and with bags, ready for trick or treating. Pool did not see POTUS enter the White House through the north portico.

Handing off to in-town pool to take it from here. My thanks to Geoff Earle of The Daily Mail for all of his help today getting quotes and spotting details.