 the presidency by challenging both the Republican and Democrat Party establishments. For too long, the political class of party leaders, paid consultants, lobbyists, donor-funded think tanks, and partisan media outlets ignored the concerns of millions of working- and middle-class American families.

These families didn't see themselves as Democrats or Republicans. They saw themselves as Americans—and they wanted change.

 didn't get the message. Rather than listen to the American people, the establishment chose to lecture them instead. Democrats in Congress, for example, could've joined with President Trump and Republicans to work together on infrastructure, immigration, healthcare, the economy, our military, and more.

Instead, Democrats spent four years obstructing that agenda, wasting time—and tens of millions in taxpayer dollars—on political stunts.

While the left resisted, President Trump went to work.

something both Republican and Democrat politicians had promised to do for years. His new 
, protects American labor, and levels the playing field for U.S. manufacturers and automakers.

 for over 80 percent of Americans by lowering rates 
, doubling the child tax credit, nearly doubling the standard deduction, and lowering costs for employers.

War on Energy. Rather than relying on foreign oil, today America is 
 and natural gas in the world. Last year, for the first time in 67 years, America exported more energy than it imported.

including taking action to permit the safe, legal importation of prescription drugs from Canada. In 2018, Americans saw 
 in half a century.

as wages grew 
 and fastest for Americans without a college degree.

to ensure Americans are first in line for jobs as the country safely reopens. He also 
 that allowed companies to replace American workers with low-cost foreign labor.

reforming the Clinton-era crime bill that sent too many young Black men to jail. Today, America has its 
 in 31 years.

secured the 
 in a decade, and became the first President since Reagan not to start a war.

for failing our veterans under the previous Administration, signing the VA Accountability Act and 
 for misconduct and poor performance.

to secure 
, supporting our allies instead of starting wars or giving cash to Iran.

 and Social Security—including from 
 schemes, which would kick 
 Americans off their health plans.

 in our national parks and public lands in history, signing the 
 to protect our natural heritage.

patriotism from those who would tear it down—literally—by increasing penalties on those who 
 and memorials.

in history, with 
 and poverty rates for Americans once left behind—including Black Americans, Hispanic Americans, and others.

 from the global Coronavirus pandemic, our country is witnessing its 
 in history.

Americans outside of our nation's political class see these results. A majority of our citizens say they are 
. In fact, more Americans say they are better off after President Trump's first term than said so after the first terms of Barack Obama, George W. Bush, or even Ronald Reagan.

wanted change. The establishment didn't listen. Fortunately for millions of families across our country, President Trump did—and he's just getting started.