Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning from the White House, where it is a brisk 50 degrees or so.

The pool has been tested for the coronavirus.

President Trump started his day with a Fox News interview; at 9:45 a.m. he plans to travel to Arlington, Virginia, to thank campaign staffers at HQ. The visit is marked "closed press" right now.

That is the only official item on his schedule but, of course, it is Election Day.

The president is expected to receive the results from the White House. Your pooler has requested more details on guests, set-up for a possible address to the public from East Room, etc., and will let you know once I know. 


?Loaded in vans 


Trip to Arlington was pushed to 11 am.

Pool unloaded from vans and will gather again 10:45 or so.

Asked WH press for reason and they only said it was moved to 11 


?... in vans in WH driveway waiting for POTUS as of 11:30 am 


Motorcade rolling for Arlington at 12:03 pm from WH

Pooler briefly spotted POTUS getting into the Beast. Dark overcoat, white shirt, looked like a red tie 


?Motorcade arrived at 12:13 p.m. after an uneventful ride. A crowd of a few dozen supporters cheered POTUS with signs and flags upon arrival in Rosslyn.
Pool is inside building; not left in vans 


Pool entered crowded main area of Trump 2020 hq, a high floor over Rosslyn with many campaign signs and TV screens showing election coverage.

Staff are in glass cubicles and at common-area desks wearing MAGA or TRUMP masks in blue and red.

Saw a marker board in cubicle that said "Freedom vs. Control" and a "target state metrics leaderboard" in common area

Waiting for POTUS to address staff, many on young side, 20s etc 


POTUS entered to raucous cheers at 1:02 and applauded back to staff.Tie is purple, not red.

Recounts rallies. Cites good signs in Florida, Arizona and Texas

"I think we're gonna have a great night."

"Some of the people in this room ... will be president"

"There was love at those rallies"

Says 2nd debate and rallies were a "good combination"

"I feel very good, after doing that many rallies the voice gets a little choppy"
(On those who don't vote for him):
"Everybody should come together... Success brings people together"

"You people were not really convinceable" referring to media

Touts virus "cures" and work on ventilators

"I'm not thinking about concession speech or acceptance speech"
Only thinking of one...
"Losing is never easy, not for me it's not"

"I just want to say thank you all and get immediately back to work"

Penn. important
"I think Pennsylvania is very important, Florida is very important obviously"

"I think youll know possibly tonight" (on result)

"The whole world is waiting ... a lot of bad things happen with ballots"

"They should put the ballot in earlier"

"We're seeing lines of people and they're wearing lots of red material"

"I dont think we're going to have any slippage" with seniors in fla. 


Loading up, check networks for full clip:

Trump?: "we had plenty of money I'll tell you"

Says he could have called up Wall Street; says politicians who seek money are "making deals"

Finished by thanking staff again;

spoke for 11 min

Ended 1:11 pm 


MAGA crowd on corner shouts approval again as motorcade departs.One lady nearby gave a thumbs down 


motorcade returned to WH at 1:29 pm after uneventful ride; pooler couldn't see POTUS exit and reenter WH 


?You can find the full campaign HQ event here:


Highlighting a few full quotes here:

Have you written an acceptance speech and a concession speech?
"I'm not thinking about concession speech or acceptance speech yet. Hopefully, we'll be only doing one of those two. And you know, winning is easy, losing is never easy — not for me, it's not."

pivots to rallies: "There's a tremendous love going on in this country. And there's really a tremendous unity. Nobody's ever seen that, where you take an airport and the airport's not big enough to hold the crowds. Nobody's ever seen a thing like that."

When do you think we'll know a winner and should every vote be counted no matter how long it takes?
"Well, I think you'll know possibly tonight, depending possibly on the extent of victory. I think you could know tonight. I think the ruling on Pennsylvania was an unfortunate one by the Supreme Court because I think we should know what happens on the night. Let people put their ballots in earlier," he said.
"But you have to have numbers, you can't have these things delayed for many days and maybe weeks, you can't do that. The whole world is waiting, this country is waiting but the whole world is waiting. A lot of shenanigans, a lot of bad things happen with ballots when you say, 'Oh, let's devote days and days.' And all of a sudden the ballot count changes and you take a look at Philadelphia, the history of Philadelphia politics. No, I don't put people on their honor code, I don't think it's right." 


[
]


Hello,
It's been a while since the last report so wanted to check in and say pooler hasn't been given guidance by WH or estimate on timing of a Trump address at this point in result-gathering.

Reporters are milling around the press area watching results and earlier in the day there were a lot of reporters doing live shots in the driveway (besides Pebble Beach), much more than usual.

The White House East Room is set up for a speech with a lectern and screens on either side. A ton of American flags in the center round out the backdrop. 
There are two blocks of chairs with a center aisle.

You will have seen social media reports about hors d'oeuvres, etc., being served at a WH reception, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin confirmed he is there.



You probably saw that Trump tweeted right after Biden spoke; says statement planned; we're waiting on pool-call:
  
 
  
 


?You might want to get near a TV if you aren't already 


?Fox News playing results as we await POTUS.

Guests enjoying wine and cheering as they mill about East Room; guess is 150 people maybe; men in suits, ladies in dresses; president expected within minutes.

People react angrily to TV suggesting Biden can win Georgia.
 "What?!" woman yells 


?This is live on TV, focusing on color and room.
Trump's children entered first to cheers of USA
Loud hoots and cheers from crowd as Trump enters
Voice is raspy

Trump:
Says millions voted for him but others are trying to "disenfranchise" them
"We won't stand for it"

Some guests wearing red maga hats.
Spotted Kellyanne Conway, Ronna McDaniel, Matt Schlapp and Corey Lewandowski here.
"We love Trump" chant broke out among some before president's arrival
People tended to react to Fox deliberation on possible legal 


?Trump says it is clear they won Georgia
"They can't catch us"

Says same about NC

Ariz
"We have a lot of life in that"
Crowd gives vocal assent in saying call from network was early

"We're winning Pennsylvania by a tremendous amount"
Huge cheers and supporter waves red MAGA hat
"we're coming into good Pennsylvania areas where they happen to like your president"

"We don't need all of them" says of states

"We had such a big night"

Crowds cheers comments on margins

"they knew they couldn't win and so they said let's go to court"
Said he predicted that happening

"This is a fraud on the American public"

Big cheers for "frankly we did live this election

Pledges Supreme Court battle

"To me this is a very sad moment"

Intros Pence to cheers 


Pence says they will “remain vigilant” and on road to victory

Finished after 10 min

Trump points to supporters as he leaves stage

Guests file out slowly, leaving empty East Room except press

Spotted Azar in mask
[
] 


?WH called a travel/photo lid at 3:05 a.m.

Good night. 