"I know Philadelphia well. I married a Philly girl by the way and by the way got my Eagle's jacket on."

Biden's jacket featured a 
 logo, not 
 of the Philadelphia Eagles.

 "Under my plan, this is the God's truth, if you make less than $400,000 bucks a year you're not going to pay a penny more in taxes, not one penny, I promise you."

 Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will 
, including those making under $400,000, but even this historically large tax hike fails to cover the costs of his far-left policies.

 "[President Trump] paid $750 in federal income tax."

This is false; President Trump personally paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.

 "Trump and his Republican friends just jammed through a Supreme Court nominee – you know why? They've been trying since the day we passed the act – they've been trying to destroy the Affordable Care Act."

This is false; Judge Barrett 
 expressed a view about the constitutionality of Obamacare or about the current case pending before the Supreme Court.

 "And by the way, it's been confirmed, by all places, Wall Street, Moody's on Wall Street, said Biden's plan will create 18.6 million jobs, good paying jobs."

 The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of 
 economic policies.

 "Folks, we can keep the private insurance if you choose to or choose the Medicare-like option."

Biden's public option will end up destroying private health insurance, crowding out these plans with a subsidized government-run health plan.

 "The actuary for Social Security, full-time Social Security Administration says if Donald Trump plan [sic], were he to be re-elected, gets put in place, it would bankrupt Social Security by 2023."

 This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.

 "This is a president who won't even stand up to Vladimir Putin for putting bounties on the head of American soldiers serving in Afghanistan."

 This is false. Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is unproven, and the Trump Administration has taken strong action against Russia.

"But I think there's nothing worse than he's said or done than the way he's spoken about those of you who have served in uniform. Guess what, man, he talks about you being losers and suckers."

At least 14 officials who were on the 2018 trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:
