"[President Trump] did virtually nothing" to combat the coronavirus.
: President Trump took action beginning in January to combat the coronavirus and his Administration has led an unprecedented response to protect American lives.
"And there's no prospect that there's going to be a vaccine available for the majority of the American people before the middle of next year."
: Both the CDC and Dr. Fauci have said a vaccine is possible before the end of 2020.
"I don't understand why this president is unwilling to take on Putin when he's actually paying bounties to kill American soldiers in Afghanistan."
: Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is completely unproven.
"They're interfering with American sovereignty and to the best of my knowledge I don't think the president has said anything to Putin about it."
The 
 said no one has been tougher on Russia than the Trump Administration.
 
 
"[President Trump] has a secret bank account with China."
The bank account is neither secret nor President Trump's.
"When last time he said what he paid he said 'I only paid that little because I'm smart, I know how to game the system.'"
: President Trump has paid millions of dollars in federal taxes.
?
"My son has not made money in terms of this thing about — what are you talking about – China."
: Hunter Biden attempted to negotiate multiple, lucrative business deals with Chinese partners, and currently has an ownership stake in a Chinese private equity firm.
"What I'd make China do is play by the international rules."?
Biden has a history of being soft on China.
"When I met with Xi when I was still Vice President he said we are setting up air identification zones in the South China Sea, you can't fly through them. I said we are going to fly through them. We just flew B-52 – B1 bombers through it."
: The Trump Administration, not the Obama-Biden Administration, flew B-1 bombers through China's air defense identification zone.
"[President Trump's] never come up with a [health care] plan."
 President Trump has a health care plan.
"There's no way he can protect pre-existing conditions, none, zero."
 President Trump has fought and vowed to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions.
"Not one single person with private insurance would lose their insurance under my plan."
: Biden's government-run health plan would crowd out the private insurance that Americans rely on, and Biden broke the same promise when he was Vice President.
"I guess we are going to get the pre-existing condition plan the same time we get the infrastructure plan that we've waited since '17, '18, '19, '20."
President Trump released an 
, and has repeatedly called on Congress to invest trillions in our infrastructure and included proposals in his budget to do just that.
"Not one single person with private insurance would lose their insurance under my plan nor did they under Obamacare."
: 4 million Americans 
 in the first year of Obamacare's rollout.
"[President Trump] hasn't done a thing for anybody on health care. Not a thing."
: This is completely false. President Trump has fought ensure the American people have access to affordable, world class healthcare.
"This is the guy that the actuary of Medicare said if, in fact, of Social Security, if, in fact, he continues to withhold – his plan to withhold the tax on Social Security, Social Security will be bankrupt in – by 2023, with no way to make up for it."
: This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.
"This is the guy who's tried to cut Medicare."
: 
 previously gave Biden two Pinocchios for making this claim.
"Where I come from in Scranton and Claymont, the people don't live off of the stock market."
A majority of the American people own stock either directly or indirectly, meaning they are helped by a stronger stock market.
"But these guys will not help them, not giving them any of the [PPP] money."
: President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) saved 51 million jobs.
 "We did not separate [families at the border]"
: The Obama-Biden Administration separated families at the border.
"You know my daughter is a social worker."
: Ashley Biden has not been a social worker for more than 8 years.
 "You mean the laptop is now another Russia, Russia, Russia hoax?" 
"That's exactly what – that's exactly what we're told."
: The Director of National Intelligence, Department of Justice, and FBI all agree that Hunter Biden's laptop is not part of a foreign disinformation campaign.
"38,000 prisoners were released from federal prison. We had -- there were over 1,000 people who were given clemency."
Biden is off by nearly a factor of 20; less than 2,000 petitions for pardons and commutations were approved under the Obama-Biden administration.
"I just asked, I just asked one question. Why didn't you do it in the eight years, a short time ago? Why didn't you do it?..." 
 "We had a Republican congress. That's the answer."
: The Democratic Party had full control of both houses of Congress during the first two years of the Obama-Biden Administration, yet they failed to pass criminal justice reform.
"Four more years of this man eliminating all the regulations that were put in by us to clean up the climate, to clean up, to limit the emissions will put us in a position where we're going to be in real trouble."
: President Trump has taken action to preserve our climate and ensure that every American has access to the most pristine water and the cleanest air.
"And right now, by the way, Wall Street firm (Moody's) has indicated that my plan, my plan will in fact create 18.6 million jobs, 7 million more than his."
: The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of 
 economic policies.
"I have never said I oppose fracking."
 Biden has repeatedly expressed his support for banning fracking, wiping out fracking jobs, and eliminating the fossil fuel industry.
"The guy who got in trouble in Ukraine was this guy trying to bribe the Ukrainian government to say something negative about me."
: There is no evidence President Trump pressured the Ukrainian government to investigate Joe Biden for the purpose of benefiting him in the 2020 election.
"My response is he is xenophobic, but not because he shut down access from China…"
 Biden accused President Trump of "hysterical xenophobia" the same day the Trump Administration announced its travel ban; as the timeline makes clear, Biden was talking about the China travel ban.
"There have been questions about the work your son has done in China and for a Ukrainian energy company when you were Vice President. In retrospect, was anything about those relationships inappropriate or unethical?" 
Nothing was unethical."
 Multiple State Department officials 
about 
 and the potential for a conflict-of-interest.
"He has caused the deficit with China to go up not down, with China, up not down."
The trade deficit with China is falling and "
" in 2019.
 "Schools, they need a lot of money to open. They need to deal with ventilation systems, they need to deal with smaller classes, more teachers, more pods. And he's refused to support that money, or at least up to now."
: President Trump has publicly supported another coronavirus relief bill.