 "I used to be a county commissioner."

Biden was a county council member, not a commissioner.

"An independent analysis by Moody's, a Wall Street firm, looked at my plan and his plan in detail, this is Moody's, and they said my plan will create 18.6 million jobs in the next four years."

: The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of 
 economic policies.

 "Now we find out Trump has a secret bank account in China."

The bank account is neither secret nor President Trump's.

Guess what, he's paid 50 times more in taxes in Beijing than he's paid in America."

This is false; President Trump has personally paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017, and the taxes paid in China were by a business, not by President Trump.

 "He says reelect me and I'm going to do away with the funding for Social Security out of your paycheck. Sounds great, except the actuary at Social Security said that will bankrupt Social Security by 2023."

: This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.

 "[Trump] said, if you look at the blue states, the Democratic governors and just look at the red states of the Republican governors, we're doing well. Well, first of all, it's not true. The great rise has happened in most of the red states."

: This is false, coronavirus cases have also increased in states run by Democratic Governors.

 "I'm not banning fracking in Pennsylvania or anywhere else."

 Biden repeatedly said he would ban fracking, wipe out fracking jobs, and eliminate the fossil fuel industry.

"But nothing is more offensive than the way he's spoken about, as I said those who serve the nation [military servicemembers], suckers and losers."

At least 14 officials who were on the 2018 trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:

 "The administration gave Wall Street investors though a heads-up [about the coronavirus]. He didn't tell us. He just told his Wall Street friends and that's why they made so much money by quote, selling short in the market."

This is completely false; neither President Trump nor anyone in his Administration gave a "heads up" to Wall Street.

 "But the American people don't panic. He panicked. And he still has no plan [for coronavirus]."

President Trump took action to combat the coronavirus beginning in January, and his Administration has led an unprecedented response to protect American lives.

 "Before the pandemic, he handed out $1.5 trillion in tax giveaways to the wealthiest families in the nation and the corporations."

 President Trump's tax cuts benefitted Americans at every income level and are delivering important benefits for working families and middle-class workers.

 "They do have time, though, to spend several weeks on confirming a new [Supreme Court] Justice [Amy Coney Barrett] who is interested in doing one thing: getting rid of Obamacare."

This is false; Judge Barrett 
 expressed a view about the constitutionality of Obamacare or about the current case pending before the Supreme Court.

 "He has hundreds of millions of dollars in debt, over 400 million, due in the next two years, who does he owe it to?"

There is no mystery here; President Trump's financial disclosures are 
, and they list his liabilities in detail.

 "He's never delivered on his promise for a big infrastructure plan. He told you in '17, I've got an infrastructure plan coming and in '18, '19, and '20. He hasn't done a thing."

President Trump released an 
, and has repeatedly called on Congress to invest trillions in our infrastructure and included proposals in his budget to do just that.

 "I'm gonna build on the Affordable Care Act so you can keep your private insurance, if that's what you choose to do."

 Biden's public option will end up destroying private health insurance, crowding out these plans with a subsidized government-run health plan.
