This week, 
 wrapped up the Build Back Better Rural Roadshow after a two-week tour of stops in 13 key battleground states, including Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin.

The tour made virtual and in-person stops in rural communities to meet rural voters where they are and bring more rural Americans into the campaign with less than two weeks to go. On the tour, rural community leaders and stakeholders, along with top campaign surrogates, discussed how a Biden-Harris administration would build rural communities back better and fight for rural Americans. Speakers at each stop outlined Joe Biden's understanding that opportunity is key to retaining rural jobs for future generations. The campaign also listened to rural community members to hear about what issues are top of mind in this election, including better hospitals and health care, reliable broadband internet, clean energy, and access to federal resources.

Now, the
 coalition is building off the momentum from the Roadshow, mobilizing rural Americans to get out and vote and engage with friends and family to make sure they vote too and join the movement to elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.

See below for highlights of the tour:



On Friday, October 9, Senators Amy Klobuchar and Tammy Baldwin licked off the campaign's Build Back Better Rural Roadshow with a visit to a Western Wisconsin farm. Senators Klobuchar and Baldwin discussed Joe Biden's 
, create good-paying jobs, and help Wisconsin 
 from the pandemic.





On Saturday, October 10,
 hosted a virtual stop on the national 
with Kathleen Sebelius, former Governor of Kansas and U.S. Secretary of Health & Human Services, Representative Cheri Bustos, DCCC Chair, Seth Clark, Macon-Bibb County Commissioner-Elect, and Eustacia McCloud-Carter, member of the 


The discussion, moderated by local environmental advocate Laura Turner Seydel, focused on issues facing rural and suburban communities in Georgia, such as health care, clean air and water, and community safety. Speakers highlighted Joe Biden's plans to 
, 
, 
, 
, and restore the soul of our nation.





On Sunday, October 11, 
 hosted a virtual stop on the Rural Roadshow featuring a conversation with former Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, moderated by Mike Collier, on issues of importance to Texas farmers and ranchers, as well as how rural Americans can vote in Texas this year.



On Tuesday, October 13, 
 hosted a virtual stop on the national Build Back Better Rural Roadshow with House Majority Whip James E. Clyburn, Congresswoman Grace Meng, local leaders, and rural community members.



Also on Tuesday, October 13, former U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Senator Kerry Donovan and Leland Swenson, former senior advisor to Senator Michael Bennet, joined 
for a discussion on 
, which includes plans to grow the bioeconomy and bio-based manufacturing to bring cutting-edge manufacturing jobs back to rural America.





On Tuesday, October 13, former Senator Heidi Heitkamp joined 
 for a Build Back Better Rural Roadshow. They joined community leaders for a discussion of Joe Biden's 
.





Former U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp and U.S. Senator Tina Smith hosted a Minnesota Rural Health Care Roadshow on Thursday, October 15 to highlight health care disparities in rural communities:





On Thursday, October 15, 
 hosted a virtual roundtable as part of the Biden for President Rural Roadshow. During their discussion, Senator Doug Jones of Alabama, former Congressman Zack Space, former State Senator Lou Gentile, State Representative Jack Cera, Jefferson County Democratic Party Chair Robert Martin, and local leaders made their pitch to Ohio voters by highlighting the Biden-Harris 
, which includes standing up for farmers, creating millions of new jobs, delivering affordable and accessible rural health care, expanding broadband, and investing in rural public schools and colleges.





On Friday, October 16, Senator Amy Klobuchar and Secretary Tom Vilsack joined 
 for a virtual stop on the national Build Back Better Rural Roadshow, with local leaders and rural community members from across the Commonwealth. The event focused on issues facing Pennsylvania's rural communities, such as rural broadband, health care, education, and agriculture. Speakers highlighted Joe Biden's plans to 
, 
, 
, and encouraged Pennsylvanians to make a plan to vote early for the Biden-Harris ticket at 
.



Senator Tammy Baldwin and former Senator Heidi Heitkamp hosted a 
 Build Back Better "Rural Roadshow" event in Northeast Wisconsin to highlight what's at stake for rural communities this November, including health care and the economy. State Representative and Congressional candidate Amanda Stuck also joined the event, along with Ashland County Board Supervisor and Bad River Tribe member Philomena Kabec and former State Director of USDA Rural Development in Wisconsin, Stan Gruszynski. 






On Sunday, October 18, 
 hosted the "Build Back Better" Virtual Rural Roadshow" for Gadsden County with Members of Congress Jim Clyburn and Al Lawson, State Rep. Ramon Alexander, and Gadsden County Commissioner Brenda Holt. Speakers remarked on the inequalities rural communities, especially African-American rural communities, are facing in Donald Trump's America.





On Monday, October 19, Mayor Pete Buttigieg joined a rural roundtable with Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin and farmers in Stockbridge, Michigan as part of the Rural Roadshow to discuss the issues faced by Michigan farmers and their priorities this election.





On Monday, October 19, 
 hosted a virtual "Carolina Rural Roadshow." House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, Congresswoman Grace Meng, former Congressman Bob Etheridge, and State Representative Joe Sam Queen rallied to energize voters and encourage everyone to vote early.



On Wednesday, October 21, 
 hosted a roundtable with Representative Cindy Axne and rural Iowans to discuss the issues that matter to rural communities in Iowa. At the final event of the Build Back Better Rural Roadshow, Representative Axne shared the Biden-Harris agenda for rural America, and encouraged Iowans to get involved and join the movement to elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
