

 "… through eight years, without one single trace of scandal. Not one single trace of scandal."

 Barack Obama and Joe Biden presided over numerous scandals across their eight years in office.

 "Imagine where we'd be if we had a president who wore a mask instead of mocking it."

 President Trump has strongly advocated that Americans wear masks, and he has worn one himself many times.

"[President Trump] paid $750 in taxes."

This is false; President Trump has personally paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.

 "If you notice, he's the only president I know of that have a secret bank account in China."

The bank account is neither secret nor President Trump's.

"Under my plan, if you make less than $400,000 a year, you're not going to a penny in additional taxes."

: Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will 
, including those making under $400,000.

 "The actuary at the Social Security Administration says if he gets the plan passed, it will bankrupt Social Security by 2023."

 This attack from Biden is false and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.

: "We'll keep your private insurance. You can choose a Medicare like public option if you don't."

Biden's public option will end up destroying the private health insurance that 180 million Americans rely on, crowding out these plans with a subsidized government-run plan.

"[President Trump] called [servicemembers] losers and suckers."

At least 14 officials who were on the 2018 trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:

 "Putin put bounties on the heads of American soldiers serving in Iraq, and Trump was too scared to challenge him. Talked to him six times and has never mentioned it."

 This is false. Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is completely unproven, and the Trump Administration has taken strong action against Russia.

"We're going to act to get COVID under control, on day one of my presidency I'll put in action a plan … I've been talk about for months, a plan that I laid out, a national mandate, mask wearing."

Biden is again botching the facts on mask mandates; just yesterday, Biden admitted the President does not have the authority to implement a national mask mandate.



"Trump and the Republicans have jammed through a Supreme Court nomination and you know why, one reason, to destroy the Affordable Care Act."

This is false; Judge Barrett 
 expressed a view about the constitutionality of Obamacare or about the current case pending before the Supreme Court.
