President Trump is right: Biden spent decades hanging American workers out to dry while 
 on 
 and 
. The revelations from Hunter Biden's laptop are only the tip of the iceberg.
The 
 on Hunter Biden's lucrative foreign business dealings only adds more shocking revelations to the Biden family's web of contacts with Russian oligarchs and Chinese Communist officials.
"We've got people all around the world who want to invest in Joe Biden," his brother reportedly told corporate executives in 2006. The Biden family wasn't shy about 
 often at the expense of
Hunter Biden's firm 
 a $3.5 million wire transfer in 2014 from Russian billionaire Elena Baturina, the wife of the former mayor of Moscow.
 had 
 in the energy sector, but he was paid boatloads of cash by 
 for a no-show job while his father was directing the Obama Administration's Ukraine policy as vice president. Hunter landed the sweetheart gig 
 to Ukraine.
Hunter opened a joint bank account with a Chinese national tied to the Communist government. The account 
 for Hunter as well as Joe Biden's brother James and his wife Sara.
While Joe Biden 
 that made it harder for struggling Americans to declare bankruptcy, Biden's son Hunter was 
 from one of those banks, MBNA.
While Biden oversaw Iraq policy, a construction firm that employed Biden's brother James 
.
Biden's brother Frank has called his last name 
 for his personal business ventures.
"Biden's brother [James] told executives at a healthcare firm that the former vice president's cancer initiative would promote their business, according to a participant in the conversation, who said the promise came as part of a pitch on behalf of potential investors in the firm," according to 
.
Biden's brother James bought land on a Caribbean island in 2005, then turned around and 
 to a lobbyist close to Biden for what had been the cost of the entire property.
While Biden was vice president, his son Hunter 
 for a trip to China. While in Beijing he arranged for his Chinese business partner to meet his father. 
, Hunter's firm received an approval from the Chinese government-owned Bank of China that paved the way for more than a billion dollars in business for Hunter's firm.
About one-fifth of the $11 million Biden's 2008 presidential campaign raised 
 through companies that employed them.
As early as the 1970s, Biden's brother James was 
 to secure "unusually generous" loans while then-Senator Biden sat on the Senate Banking Committee.
While Biden was vice president, the Delaware non-profit where his daughter was executive director 
 totalling $166,000.
Biden's son-in-law Howard Krein founded an investment consultancy that immediately received special access to the Obama White House with Biden's help.
 Beijing Biden spent decades in Washington advancing China's interests and supporting terrible trade deals like NAFTA and TPP. 
Biden 
 and voted for NAFTA in 1993, costing 850,000 Americans their jobs and shattering middle-class communities.
Campaigning for president in 2007, Biden 
. But when he had the chance as vice president, he 
.
Biden led the effort to 
, saying he did not foresee "the collapse of the American manufacturing economy" because of the deal. 1 million American manufacturing jobs were lost between 2000 and 2007 
.
Biden has 
 to American workers. He even went out of his way to 
.
As vice president, Biden led the fight in support of 
 trade deal, which would have killed nearly half a million American jobs, shrunk our economy, and been 
 of Scranton and Allentown and Pittsburgh.
 He recently 
 in pursuit of his radical Green New Deal agenda. He said he will 
.
Millions of Americans were 
 by Joe Biden, who put his family and foreign countries like China first and America last. Our country can't afford to let him do that again.