President Trump has fought to improve the lives of all Americans—and that begins with ensuring the American people have access to affordable, world class healthcare.

 President Trump recently signed an executive order 
. President Trump has made "cover all pre-existing conditions" a 
.

President Trump is the only candidate in the race who will actually fight for American patients.



The Trump Administration has 
 the use of short-term, limited-duration health insurance (STLD) plans, which offer more choices at lower costs to consumers.
The Trump Administration has 
 access to Association Health Plans (AHPs), which make it easier for small businesses to band together to offer better insurance and lower premiums for their workers.
The Trump Administration 
 Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs), allowing employees to use money from their employer to buy the insurance of their choice.


The Trump tax cuts 
 Obamacare's unpopular individual mandate, which 
 Americans.
President Trump signed legislation to repeal the unpopular Obamacare 
 (IPAB).
Over the last two years, premiums for Obamacare plans are 
.


President Trump is 
 to protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions.
President Trump signed the historic Right to Try legislation, 
 terminally ill patients hope and the 
.
President Trump 
 the Childhood Cancer STAR Act, investing $30 million a year for child cancer research.
President Trump has taken 
 to expand the availability of organ donations.


President Trump 
 principles to stop surprise medical billing.
In 2019, President Trump 
 to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States within a decade.


The White House Council of Economic Advisors has said the U.S. is 
 at rates not seen since the 1960s.
So far, in every year of the Trump Administration, the FDA has 
 of generic drugs, delivering cheaper alternatives to name brands.
The Trump Administration released 
 for reducing the cost of prescription drugs which was 
 by both Republicans and Democrats.
President Trump 
 legislation to improve 
 in drug pricing and is fighting to bring lower drug prices that the rest of the world sees to America.
The Trump Administration is helping Medicare recipients by providing 
 and 
, saving thousands of dollars for America's seniors.
The Trump administration has worked to 
 of cheaper drugs from Canada and other countries to reduce prescription drug costs.
President Trump worked to help lower income Americans 
 to life-saving medications, 
, at affordable costs.