Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from a damp White House on this Columbus Day. The only thing on the president's schedule at this point is a rally tonight in Sanford, Florida, with departure from the White House set for 4:35 pm. 


We have a lunch lid until 2 pm. 


A Marine now is posted at the North entrance to the West Wing, indicating that the president is in the Oval Office. Your pooler is unclear when the Marine took his post, but he was not there his morning or earlier this afternoon. 


?Pool is loaded into vans to motorcade to Joint Base Andrews because of a bad weather call and awaiting departure. 


?POTUS left the Oval Office at 4:08 pm and the motorcade left the White House at 4:10 headed to JBA. -- 


?Motorcade arrived at Air Force One at JBA at 4:33 pm. -- 


?In-town pool has handed off to the travel pool for the trip to Florida. -- 


?Motorcade left JBA at 9:52 pm after POTUS arrival from Florida. -- 


[
]

?The president waved at press from afar and gave a thumbs up as he walked to the plane. At the top of the stairs he waved again and broke into a fist bump to the beat of YMCA, which closed him out.

The president delivered 1 hour and three minutes of remarks in Sanford. We are back on board Air Force One and taking off soon. It is 8:07 pm ET.

Of note: another pooler reports seeing Dr. Conley as we deplaned in Sanford.

Next stop, JBA. 


?A lid was called upon arrival at the White House. Good night. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




?The president arrived by motorcade at Joint Base Andrews at 4:33 pm ahead of his flight to Sanford, Florida, for his first rally since contracting coronavirus. He did not talk to press but gave a thumbs up through the window and a wave as he walked toward the steps to board AF1.

He bounced up the steps and into the plane -- the big one today -- and we awaiting imminent take off in a light shower. 


?One other thing: the president was not wearing a mask, as photos and video will show. 


Air Force One touched down at the Orlando Sanford International Airport at 6:39 pm.

The channel was set to Fox News during the mostly uneventful flight.

Early on, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows came to the press cabin door to thank members of the press pool for traveling today. He wore a mask and did not stay to chat.

No other visitors came by the press cabin and Meadows is the only senior staffer pool has seen on today's trip. 


?The president emerged from Air Force One at 6:54 pm ET. He is on stage now, having taken the stage to God Bless the USA.

The traveling press corps deplaned Air Force One and rushed on foot to the nearby, outdoor rally set up at the airport immediately after arrival. Traveling press is seated in a separate section from the rest of the press corp in a fenced off area with a buffer between our filing tables and the president's supporters. The sun is setting in Sanford, but it is still 84 degrees outside.

Many of the president's supporters -- -of which there are many stuffed into the rally site but pool has not received an official crowd count -- are not wearing masks, although some are.

Immediately prior to the president taking the stage "Memory" from the musical Cats was playing. Since the president began talking, members of the audience have shouted Trump's name and four more years.

Pooler will send additional color but for full quotes please consult a television. 


The press pool was pulled from the event before it concluded. We are walking back to Air Force One as the president concludes his remarks.

He is at hour of remarks per my recording. 


The president waved at press from afar and gave a thumbs up as he walked to the plane. At the top of the stairs he waved again and broke into a fist bump to the beat of YMCA, which closed him out.

The president delivered 1 hour and three minutes of remarks in Sanford. We are back on board Air Force One and taking off soon. It is 8:07 pm ET.

Of note: another pooler reports seeing Dr. Conley as we deplaned in Sanford.

Next stop, JBA. 


Air Force One arrived back at JBA at 9:45 pm. Nothing of note from the flight except to say the Mark Meadows -- still in a mask --- popped in the press cabin briefly to say hi. He left again immediately.

The president deplaned AF1 at 9:51 pm and entered a black SUV. He is motorcading back to the White House.

Pool earlier saw Dan Scavino exit AF1 via the back. If other officials were traveling, we couldn't see them in the darkness.

Have a good evening, everyone. 