Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from the White House on a grey day.

The daily guidance shows POTUS leaving at 5.50pm for a campaign rally in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. He has been tweeting about topics including the election, coronavirus and Christopher Columbus so far today.

Poolers are currently being tested for Covid-19. 
[
] 


?Pool has gathered at the south portico and is waiting for POTUS to depart. 


?POTUS emerged from the south portico at 6.04pm. He stopped very briefly to say he was heading to Pennsylvania and expecting a big crowd but did not take questions.

He boarded Marine One, followed by Mark Meadows (in face mask) and other officials. 


Marine One lifted off the south lawn at 6.08pm and flew off into a clear blue sky. 


POTUS was wearing a dark blue suit, white shirt and red tie but no face mask. He stopped outside the south portico and said: "We're going to Johnstown, Pennsylvania, a very big crowd. And I think Amy is doing incredibly well. It's been a great day. Thank you, I'll see you in Johnstown."

He then proceeded to Marine One. 


?Pool has gathered outside the south portico for POTUS's return from his Pennsylvania rally. 


?Marine One touched down on the south lawn at 9.56pm. POTUS disembarked at 9.58pm and, wearing a black coat and sombre expression, walked across the south lawn. He waved three times to the media but did not take questions on his way into the south portico.

A group of staff followed and headed to the west wing. 


?A travel/ photo lid has been called. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 


Good evening from Joint Base Andrews where President Trump just arrived on Marine One, and boarded Air Force One after making a fist pump.

Dan Scavino, Jared Kushner, and Mark Meadows, among other aides I didn't catch, boarded the plane wearing masks.

While Secret Service officers and our wrangler are wearing masks aboard Air Force One (the smaller version) other senior White House aides, including Alyssa Farah, Cassidy Dumbauld, Vincent Haley, and Kash Patel, are not.

This being the smaller plane, please note I will not have service once the doors close.

Please note the Trump camapign sent out excerpts of the speech for tonight's rally: 
Air Force One touched down around 7:20pm to a massive crowd gathered outside of a hangar at John Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport in PA.

Trump supporters, wearing MAGA hats, and some in Trump 2020 masks, are braving the chilly weather and erupted in cheers of "U-S-A" and "4 more years!" when President Trump walked out to the podium.

Trump's speech began at 7:33pm.

Behind the president are risers full of rally goers, a lit up AF1, and a giant American flag attached to a construction crane.

The rally is being broadcast live, and I'll send along any color.


?President Trump spoke for over an hour (~1:06) from a podium outside the Johnstown airport where the temperatures dropped to 50 degrees once the sun set. In addition to the lines delivered in advance by the campaign, Trump also touched on topics ranging from the Biden family's business dealings and fracking to Christopher Columbus (he asked all the Italian Americans to raise their hands).
At one point, Trump praised his treatment at Walter Reed and said he felt "like Superman" after his treatments for coronavirus. The president also did an informal poll of the crowd and asked his supporters, packed into the hangar, who has had the virus. "A lot of people, a lot of people," Trump said, and added those people are now "immune."

After wrapping his speech, Trump did a lap around the platform where he waved to supporters and did a fists-clenched boogie to "YMCA."

About 45 minutes into the speech, some of the people here began to file out but most seemed to remain for the entirety of the speech.

At 8:45pm Trump boarded AF1 with a wave. We are boarding now.

**Note: Cassidy Hutchinson, not Dumbauld was on our flight. My sincere apologies!! 


At 9:30pm Air Force One landed at JBA after a quick flight.

The president walked to Marine One at 9:39pm and was followed by aides including Scavino and Kushner.

Please reach out if you have any questions, but handing off to the in town pooler back at the White House.