







 ("USMCA – Pennsylvania," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

("Pennsylvania Depends On Trade With Canada And Mexico," 
dtable, Accessed 7/8/20)

 ("USMCA – Pennsylvania," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)



 "PFB emphasized how critically important it is for Pennsylvania agriculture to have strong trade agreements with USMCA partners Canada and Mexico. 'Nearly 60 percent of all agriculture exports from Pennsylvania, which total more than $1.43 billion per year, are sold to Canada and Mexico under NAFTA, and those figures are expected to increase under the new trade deal,' concluded Ebert." (Mark O'Neill, "PA Farm Bureau Encouraged By Revamped NAFTA Trade Agreement," 
, 10/4/18)

 "Farm Bureau notes that the agreement is important for American dairy farmers, who would be able to export products without tariffs until their dairy products equal 3.6% of Canada's domestic production. 'Dairy farmers hope increased trade will help reduce the oversupply of milk in the U.S. and provide a much-needed increase to their monthly milk checks,' added Ebert." (Mark O'Neill, "PA Farm Bureau Encouraged By Revamped NAFTA Trade Agreement," 
, 10/4/18)



 ("USMCA Passage Is Critical For Pennsylvania Manufacturers And Workers," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

 ("USMCA Passage Is Critical For Pennsylvania Manufacturers And Workers," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

 ("USMCA Passage Is Critical For Pennsylvania Manufacturers And Workers," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)




 "Export-dependent jobs are usually full time, pay higher-than-average wages and offer real career opportunities to middle-class workers. Pennsylvania manufacturing make on average $72,151 in total annual compensation compared to $49,059 for workers across all private nonfarm industries." ("USMCA Passage Is Critical For Pennsylvania Manufacturers And Workers," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)





(H.R. 3450, 
, Adopted 61-38; R: 34-10; D: 27-28; 11/20/93; Biden Voted Yea)

"Between 1993 (before NAFTA took effect) and 2013, the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and Canada increased from $17.0 billion to $177.2 billion, displacing more than 850,000 U.S. jobs. Growing trade deficits and job displacement, especially between the United States and Mexico, were the result of a surge in outsourcing of production by U.S. and other foreign investors. The rise in outsourcing was fueled, in turn, by a surge in foreign direct investment (FDI) into Mexico, which increased by more than 150 percent in the post-NAFTA period." (Robert E. Scott, "Fast Track To Lost Jobs And Lower Wages," 
, 4/13/15)



 (Robert E. Scott, "Heading South: U.S.-Mexico Trade And Job Displacement After NAFTA," 
, 3/3/11)

("Job Losses Due To Trade Since NAFTA Deepen Pennsylvania's Manufacturing Crisis," 
, 12/03)




("Pennsylvania Job Loss During The NAFTA-WTO Period," 
, Accessed 9/7/20)

 (
, Accessed 6/23/20)



MSNBC'S KEITH OLBERMANN: "To continue with this in a 30-second fashion, Senator Biden, scrap NAFTA or fix it?" SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I hope that red light's going to malfunction for me, too. Only kidding. Hey, look, a president's job is to create jobs, not to export jobs, and the idea that we are not willing to take the prime minister of Canada and the president of Mexico to the mat to make this agreement work is just a lack of presidential leadership. I would lead, I would do that, I would change it." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)


"The administration has no present plans to reopen negotiations on the North American Free Trade Agreement to add labor and environmental protections, as President Obama vowed to do during his campaign, the top trade official said on Monday. 'The president has said we will look at all of our options, but I think they can be addressed without having to reopen the agreement,' said the official, Ronald Kirk, the United States trade representative. It was perhaps the clearest indication yet of the administration's thinking on whether to reopen the core agreement to add labor and environmental rules." (Brian Knowlton, "Obama Doesn't Plan To Reopen NAFTA Talks," 
, 4/20/19) 






(H.R. 4444, 
, Passed 83-15, 09/19/00, Biden Voted Yea)

 (Robert E. Scott And Zane Mokhiber, "The China Toll Deepens," 
, 10/23/18)

"An influential 2013 paper by economists David Autor, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson found that exposure to Chinese trade competition was responsible for the loss of roughly 1 million U.S. manufacturing jobs between 2000 and 2007, many concentrated in regional industries such as the auto sector. Those findings were echoed in a 2016 paper, 'The Surprisingly Swift Decline of U.S. Manufacturing Employment,' by Justin Pierce, a Federal Reserve economist, and Peter Schott, a professor at Yale School of Management, that linked China's WTO entry to an 18% plunge in manufacturing jobs during the same period." (Joshua Green, "Biden's NAFTA Vote Is A Liability In The Rust Belt," 
, 5/14/19)


(Joshua Green, "Biden's NAFTA Vote Is A Liability In The Rust Belt," 
, 5/14/19) 
"Growth in the U.S. goods trade deficit with China between 2001 and 2013 eliminated or displaced 3.2 million U.S. jobs, 2.4 million (three-fourths) of which were in manufacturing. These lost manufacturing jobs account for about two-thirdsof all U.S. manufacturing jobs lost or displaced between December, 2001 and December 2013." (Will Kimball and Robert E. Scott, "China Trade, Outsourcing And Jobs," 
, 12/11/14)

(Peter Gosselin and Mike Dorning, "After Doubts, Economists Find China Kills U.S. Factory Jobs," 
, 6/18/15)



"Though Clinton's taken fire for refusing to weigh in on TPP, Biden was a key surrogate for the Obama Administration in their effort to build support on Capitol Hill... His support for TPP would be particularly tough to address in a primary, as he's been one of administration's advocates for the deal on Capitol Hill." (Alexandra Jaffe, "Trade Agreement The Latest Policy Hurdle For A Biden Run," 
, 10/5/15)

COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS PRESIDENT RICHARD HAASS: "You recently wrote in Foreign Affairs magazine—just to choose a random publication that, that the Trans-Pacific Partnership—TPP—is as much about geopolitics as economics, and there we agree 100 percent. So my question is can there be a rebalance towards Asia without TPP, and given that both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton oppose TPP, can there be TPP?" VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "Answer the second question first. As my grandfather would say, with the grace of God, the goodwill of the neighbors, and the crick not rising, we got a shot in this period—lame-duck period. That's our only real shot here. I'm not overpromising, but sometimes when there is no election to face and people are leaving and others who are staying they may see the wisdom of TPP, number one. Number two, but it's going to be hard. I think it's less than an even chance but there is a genuine chance. It's possible we can get it passed. The central element of your question was can you rebalance without TPP. Yes, but not nearly as well. Yes, but not nearly as well." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 9/21/16)






"TPP would lead to employment losses in all countries, with a total of 771,000 lost jobs. The United States would be the hardest hit, with a loss of 448,000 jobs. Developing economies participating in the agreement would also suffer employment losses, as higher competitive pressures force them to curtail labor incomes and increase production for export." (Jeronim Capaldo, Alex Izurieta, and Jomo Kwame Sundaram, "Trading Down: Unemployment, Inequality And Other Risks Of The Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement," 
, 1/16)

"The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) today issued a letter to signatories of the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement ("TPP") that the United States has formally withdrawn from the agreement per guidance from the President of the United States. The letter emphasizes the commitment of the United States to free and fair trade, and encourages future discussions on "measures designed to promote more efficient markets and higher levels of economic growth.'" (Press Release, "The United States Officially Withdraws from the Trans-Pacific Partnership," 
, 1/17)





"Biden would increase income and payroll taxes on high-income individuals and increase income taxes on corporations. He would increase federal revenues by $4.0 trillion over the next decade. Under his plan, the highest-income households would see substantially larger tax increases than households in other income groups, both in dollar amounts and as share of their incomes." ("An Analysis of Former Vice President Biden's Tax Proposals," 
, 3/5/20)



 TIM ALBERTA: "Vice President Biden, I'd like to ask you. Three consecutive American presidents have enjoyed stints of explosive economic growth due to a boom in oil and natural gas production. As president, would you be willing to sacrifice some of that growth, even knowing potentially that it could displace thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of blue-collar workers in the interest of transitioning to that greener economy?" JOE BIDEN: "The answer is yes." (Joe Biden, 
, Los Angeles, CA, 12/20/19)






"Joe Biden is looking voters in the eye and promising to 'end fossil fuel.' The former vice president and Democratic presidential candidate made the comment Friday after a New Hampshire environmental activist challenged him for accepting donations from the co-founder of liquified natural gas firm." (Steve People, "In Intimate Moment, Biden Vows To 'End Fossil Fuel,'" 
 9/6/19)





JOE BIDEN: "Coal burning plants, no one is going to build another coal burning, we have to shut the ones down that we have but no one is going to build a new one." (Joe Biden, 
. New York, NY, 9/4/19)








"Pennsylvania, endowed with extensive fossil energy resources, is a leading East Coast supplier of coal, natural gas, electricity, and refined petroleum products to its own industries and to the nation. The Appalachian Mountains hold rich coal resources and run diagonally southwest to northeast through Pennsylvania, dividing the Ohio River valley in the west from the Susquehanna and Delaware River valleys in the east. The Marcellus Shale, the largest U.S. natural gas field, follows the arc of the mountains and underlies about three-fifths of the state." ("Pennsylvania," 
, 6/19/18)



 "Mr. Biden only has himself to blame for being vulnerable on the issue of fracking, a drilling technique used to extract oil and natural gas from underground rock formations." (The Editorial Board, "Biden' Confusing Stand On Fracking," 
, 9/1/20)

CNN's DANA BASH: "Just to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?" JOE BIDEN: "No, we would -- we would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those, either -- any fossil fuel." (Joe Biden, 
, Detroit, MI, 7/31/19)






BIDEN: "Look, you're going to ban fracking all across America right now, right?" VOTER: "I would love to." BIDEN: "Yeah. I'd love to too. I'd love to make sure we can't use any oil or gas, period." (Sunrise Movement, 
, 12/6/19)






BERNIE SANDERS: "Joe believes, to continue fracking. Correct me if I am wrong. What we need to do right now is bring the world together, tell the fossil fuel industry that we are going to move aggressively to win solar, sustainable energies..." CNN'S JAKE TAPPER: "Thank you." SANDERS: "... and energy efficiency." TAPPER: "Thank you, Senator." JOE BIDEN: "No more, no new fracking." (Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 3/15/20)






 ("What If...Hydraulic Fracturing Was Banned?," 
, 12/18/19)





"On February 17th, 2009, the President signed The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, or Recovery Act, into law. ... The President selected Vice President Joe Biden to oversee the Administration's implementation of the Recovery Act's provisions – a choice that signifies the importance of this critical task for our country's future. Vice President Biden works closely with cabinet members, our nation's governors, and our mayors to ensure these efforts are not just swift, but efficient and effective." ("About The Recovery Act," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

(Heather Long and Tami Luhby, "Yes, This Is The Slowest U.S. Recovery Since WWII," 
, 10/5/16)

"The current recovery continues to rank last among post-1960 recoveries in terms of real economic growth. Since the recession ended in the second quarter of 2009, real GDP has grown at an average annual rate of 2.3 percent. In other post-1960 recoveries, real GDP expanded at an average annual rate of 4.0 percent during the comparable five-and-one-half year period (see Figure 4)." ("The 2015 Joint Economic Report," 
, 3/17/15)






(
, Accessed 9/7/20)

(
, Accessed?2/7/20)?

, Accessed?2/25/20)?

(
, Accessed 9/7/20)

 "But the Fed's Survey of Consumer Finances shows how uneven the distribution of that stimulus has been. Between 2010 and 2013, as recovery took hold and stock markets soared, the average net worth of families in the top 40 percent of income earners grew. For all others average net worth shrank, declining 19 percent for the middle fifth. Similarly, the average earnings for families in the top 10 percent grew more than 9 percent from 2010 through 2013, while those at other levels stagnated or shrank. For the middle fifth, average earnings fell 4.6 percent. Over the six years through 2013, the middle fifth's average annual family earnings fell to $47,243 from $53,008 while their average net worth dropped to $170,066 from $236,525." (Howard Schneider, "Middle Class Decline Looms Over Final Years Of Obama Presidency," 
, 1/18/15)



 "He also said that despite the economic recovery under Obama, many Americans were still reeling when Trump came along. 'A lot of people were left behind,' Biden said. 'In areas where people were hard hit, I don't think we paid enough attention to their plight.'" (Michael Steinberger, "Joe Biden Wants To Take America Back To A Time Before Trump," 
, 7/23/19)

VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "Well, first of all, I don't think, as a party, we spent -- look, I'm really proud of what Barack and I, the president and I were able to do in the economy. But if you notice, the last two years, in the president's State of the Union, there has been a shift in a focus, now that we got the car out of the ditch and on the road and running, on really focusing on the real inequities that exist and still exist for working-class, middle- class people who are left behind. And -- and what happened was, that wasn't the central part of the campaign moving forward, in my view. Now, I said at the convention, when I introduced Hillary and praised her, I said we don't show enough respect to that group that, in fact, has been left behind. And these are people who had good, decent jobs. My dad used to have an expression, for real. He would say, 'Remember, Joe, a job is a lot more than about a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about your respect.' And as much as we come back, there's still a segment of people who had good, decent jobs five, 10, 12 years ago, and they are having trouble looking their kids in the eye and saying, honey, it's going to be OK, I feel certain about where we are now. And we have got to speak to those people. And, you know, I -- you know, globalization has not been an unalloyed asset to everybody. Some people have been left behind. There's ways to deal with that. But we never got a chance to speak to it in this election. And I think we paid a price for it." (CNN's "
," 12/11/16)






 "The nonprofit tax policy center made up of former economic experts from the Bush administration, the Clinton administration, both sides of the isle. They came out and said the Romney-Ryan tax plan will raise taxes on middle class families with a child, one or more children, by an additional two-thousand dollars a year. . . how they can justify raising taxes on the middle class that's been buried the last four years." (Joe Biden, "Remarks At 2012 Campaign Event,"
 10/2/12)






 QUESTION: "Is it strong enough of a Republican party for its nominee to beat this president?" VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "Oh absolutely. absolutely its strong enough to beat both of us, its strong enough. Look, no matter what the circumstance, at the end of the day, the American people right now, are, many of them are in real trouble. An even larger percentage have stagnant wages. And a significant majority of the American people believe that the country's not moving in the right direction. That is never a good place to be going into reelection, whether it's your fault or not your fault, it's almost sometimes irrelevant. But what I'm counting on, I'm counting on what I read out there, this judgement of the American people to decide. They know the hole we're in, they know how far we've come out. They're dissatisfied how fast we're going. And they're going to have to choose whether or not the path we have set the country on is the path we should continue to go, or we should go back to liberating the economy in the terms of." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 10/6/11)






VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: "A lot of people in Florida have good reason to be upset. Because they've lost jobs. Even though fifty some percentage of the American people think the economy tanked because of the last administration, that's not relevant. What's relevant is we're in charge. And right now, we are the ones in charge. And it's gotten better, but it hasn't gotten good enough. And in states like Florida, it's been even more stagnant because of the real estate market. And so I don't blame them for being mad. We're in charge." (Vice President Joe Biden, 
, 9/28/11)



