







 SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (I-VT): "Joe believes, to continue fracking. Correct me if I am wrong. What we need to do right now is bring the world together, tell the fossil fuel industry that we are going to move aggressively to win solar, sustainable energies..." CNN'S JAKE TAPPER: "Thank you." SANDERS: "... and energy efficiency." TAPPER: "Thank you, Senator." JOE BIDEN: "No more -- no new fracking." (Joe Biden, 
 Washington, DC, 3/15/20)





VOTER: "Well, like what about, say, stopping fracking and stopping..." JOE BIDEN: "Yes." VOTER: "...new pipeline infrastructure." BIDEN: "Yes, new pipeline, exactly." (Joe Biden, 
, Claremont, NH, 1/24/20)






CNN'S DANA BASH: "Just to clarify, would there be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking, in a Biden administration?" JOE BIDEN: "No, we would -- we would work it out. We would make sure it's eliminated and no more subsidies for either one of those, either -- any fossil fuel." Joe Biden, 
, Detroit, MI, 7/31/19)








QUESTION: "From contaminated groundwater to poisonous emissions -- will you commit to implementing a federal ban on fracking your first day in office, adding the United States to the list of countries who have banned this devastating practice?" SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): There's no question I'm in favor of banning fracking, so yes. And starting -- and starting with what we can do on day one around public lands, right? And then there has to be legislation, but yes -- and this is something I've taken on in California. I have a history of working on this issue. And to your point, we have to just acknowledge that the residual impact of fracking is enormous in terms of the impact on the health and safety of communities -- yeah, so thank you." (Sen. Kamala Harris, 
, New York City, NY, 9/4/19)








JOE BIDEN: "They want to do the same thing I want to do. They want to phase out fossil fuels and we're going to phase out fossil fuels." (Senator Joe Biden, 
, Somersworth, NH, 2/5/20)






VOTER: "I've looked at your climate plan. Why doesn't it ban fracking? JOE BIDEN: "Why doesn't it ban fracking? Because you can't ban fracking right now. You've got to transition away from it. Look, you're going to ban fracking all across America right now, right?" VOTER: "I would love to." BIDEN: "Yeah. I'd love to too. I'd love to make sure we cant' use any oil or gas, period. Now. Now. Is it possible? VOTER: "Yes" BIDEN: "Well, you ought to vote for somebody else." (Sunrise Movement, 
, 12/6/19)






JOE BIDEN: "But kiddo, I want you to just take a look, ok. You don't have to agree, but I want you to look in my eyes, I guarantee you, I guarantee you we are going to end fossil fuel and I am not going to cooperate with them, ok." (Joe Biden, 
, New Castle, NH, 9/6/19)








 TIM ALBERTA: "Vice President Biden, I'd like to ask you. Three consecutive American presidents have enjoyed stints of explosive economic growth due to a boom in oil and natural gas production. As president, would you be willing to sacrifice some of that growth, even knowing potentially that it could displace thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of blue-collar workers in the interest of transitioning to that greener economy?" JOE BIDEN: "The answer is yes." (Joe Biden, 
 Los Angeles, CA, 12/19/19)








"Power Sector: Move ambitiously to generate clean, American-made electricity to achieve a carbon pollution-free power sector by 2035." ("The Biden Plan To Build A Modern, Sustainable Infrastructure And An Equitable Clean Energy Future," 
, Accessed 10/13/20)

"To reach net-zero emissions as rapidly as possible, Democrats commit to eliminating carbon pollution from power plants by 2035 through technology-neutral standards for clean energy and energy efficiency." ("Biden-Sanders Unity Task Force Recommendations," 
, Accessed 10/13/20)





 ("What If...Hydraulic Fracturing Was Banned?," 
, 12/18/19)

 ("What If...Hydraulic Fracturing Was Banned?," 
, 12/18/19)

 ("What If...Hydraulic Fracturing Was Banned?," 
, 12/18/19)





"There are hundreds of companies — big and small — throughout the region that are looking for workers with a wide variety of skills and training. In fact, according to the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry, more than 220,000 jobs in Pennsylvania are supported by responsible natural gas development." ("Employment Resources," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

("America's New Energy Future: The Unconventional Oil and Gas Revolution and the US Economy Volume 2: State Economic Contributions," 
, 12/12)



("Rankings: Natural Gas Marketed Production, 2017," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

"Before Marcellus production ramped up, Pennsylvania produced just one percent of the nation's supply of natural gas, but today the state accounts for 16 percent. Production jumped 2,800 percent in the ten-year period covered by the report." ("Pennsylvania," 
, Accessed 7/8/18)



"The Marcellus formation extends under three-fifths of Pennsylvania and parts of West Virginia, New York, Ohio, and Maryland.41 It has the largest estimated proved reserves of any U.S. natural gas field. During 2016 alone, Pennsylvania added 6.1 trillion cubic feet of natural gas proved reserves, the largest net increase of all the states that year as a result of development of the Marcellus shale." ("Pennsylvania, State Profile And Energy Estimates," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

("Pennsylvania - Reserves," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

"In the past, natural gas production in Pennsylvania outpaced the ability of regional infrastructure to process and transport it out of the region. Several pipeline projects in recent years have alleviated these constraints. These projects include the Rockies Express Zone 3 expansion, which entered into service in October 2016 and moves natural gas westward from southwest Pennsylvania, and the Algonquin Incremental Market pipeline, which began operating in December 2016 and primarily moves natural gas from northeastern Pennsylvania into New England. Most of the natural gas shipped by pipeline from Pennsylvania goes to New Jersey, New York, Maryland, and West Virginia." ("Pennsylvania, State Profile And Energy Estimates," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)



"About 51% of Pennsylvania households use natural gas as their primary home heating fuel, 22% rely on electricity, 17% use fuel oil, 4% use propane, and nearly 3% burn wood."("Pennsylvania, State Profile And Energy Estimates," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

"Pennsylvania's Marcellus Shale gas boom has significantly cut energy costs for consumers across the state, according to a new study released Friday by the University of Pennsylvania. Residential gas customers have seen a price drop of 40 percent on average, compared to costs ten years ago." ("Pennsylvania," 
, Accessed 7/8/20)

(Catherine Hausman and Ryan Kellogg, "Welfare And Distributional Implications Of Shale Gas," 
, 3/19/15)

"We estimate that today, the average U.S. household is already saving anywhere from $425 to $725 a year because of lower energy costs that can be attributed to domestically recovered shale gas. This cheaper energy is helping hold down prices for utilities, transportation, and finished goods. By 2020, we project, the average annual savings per U.S. household could rise to as much as $1,200." (Harold L. Sirkin, Michael Zinser, and Justin Rose, "How Cheap Natural Gas Benefits The Budgets Of U.S. Households," 
, 2/3/14)



"Despite recent declines in Pennsylvania's overall economy, the state's oil and natural gas industry has seen substantial growth in terms of both employment and wages. (See figure 3.) From 2007 to 2012, total annual average employment in Pennsylvania declined by 74,133 (–1.3 percent), to 5,578,414; by contrast, employment in the oil and natural gas industry increased by 15,114 (259.3 percent) over the same period. In addition, while the state's average annual pay increased by $5,158 (11.9 percent), to $48,397 in 2012, wages in Pennsylvania's oil and natural gas industry rose by $22,104 (36.3 percent), to $82,974 in 2012." (Jennifier Cruz, Peter W. Smith, and Sara Stanley, "The Marcellus Shale Gas Boom In Pennsylvania: Employment And Wage Trends," 
, 2/14)

"Between 2007 and 2011, per-capita income rose by 19 percent in Pennsylvania counties with more than 200 wells, by 14 percent in counties with between 20 and 200 wells, and by 12 percent in counties with fewer than 20 wells. In counties without any hydrofracking wells, income went up by only 8 percent. It is important to note, too, that counties with the lowest per-capita incomes experienced the most rapid growth. Moreover, counties with more than 200 wells added jobs at a 7 percent annual rate over the same time period. Where there was no drilling, or only a few wells, the number of county jobs shrank by 3 percent." (Diana Furchtgott-Roth and Andrew Gray, "The Economic Effects Of Hydrofracturing On Local Economies: A Comparison Of New York And Pennsylvania," 
, 5/13)

"At the same time, while the number of businesses (in this case, establishments) declined in the nation and in Pennsylvania, the number of establishments grew strongly among Pennsylvania's energy sector. And it is critical to note the role and growth of smaller businesses. Table 46 makes clear that expanded production in the energy sector has been a boon for small and midsize enterprises in the state. Or, to look at it from a different angle, expanded energy production has been driven by small and midsize businesses." (Raymond J. Keating, "Benefits Of Natural Gas Production And Exports For U.S. Small Businesses: Nationally And Key States," 
, 11/14)

"The landowners' estimated share of royalty value per well, which typically drains 80 acres, is around $2.5 million and will be paid out over the lifetime of the well. This could lead to Pennsylvania landowners receiving an estimated $200 billion over the life of the Marcellus Shale development." (Timothy W. Kelsey, Ph.D. and Thomas B. Murphy, "Economic Implications Of Natural Gas Drilling In The Marcellus Shale Region," 
, Summer 2011)

"Pennsylvania's 2010 state budget included $11 billion for public transportation and $9 billion for public safety and criminal justice. A combination of corporations, businesses and individuals supporting unconventional natural gas activity paid a combined total of $641 million in taxes to Pennsylvania state and local governments that year, accounting for 6 percent of the state's transportation budget and 7 percent of spending on public safety and criminal justice." (Mohsen Bonakdarpour, John W. Larson, Tabitha M. Bailey, and Richard F. Fullenbaum, "The Economic And Employment Contributions Of Unconventional Gas Development IN State Economies," 
, 6/12)



 "The families of, workers of, and members of, The Pennsylvania Grade Crude Coalition (PGCC) are proud to endorse Donald J. Trump for President." (David Clark, President Of PGCC, 
, 9/9/20)

 "The Pennsylvania Independent Petroleum Producers are proud to endorse Donald J. Trump for President." (Mark L. Cline, Sr., President, Board Of Directors PIPP, 
, 9/9/20)