Today, 
 will kick-off a week-long series of events for 
, celebrating the history of civic engagement and political activism at Historically Black Colleges and Universities across the country. The week of events will feature HBCU students and graduates, professional athletes, elected officials, community leaders and other special guests.

The week of events begins tonight with an HBCU edition of the weekly 
 Black business roundtable series, with additional events happening each day this week, including the 
event for Black women, the latest installation of the 
 series for Black men, the virtual 
 and the virtual "Gospel Concert" to end the week.



The "Make It Happen Mondays" Black business programs highlights the importance of the Black business community. HBCU Week's Make it Happen Monday will feature student HBCU entrepreneurs and Black HBCU business owners. They will have a virtual discussion on Black-owned businesses and voting.



 "On the Yard" and "Sister to Sister" series are teaming up for an HBCU Homecoming Week program. This conversation is a part of the HBCU Students for Biden and Black Students for Biden "On the Yard" series programming. It will be combined with "Sister to Sister," an initiative hosted by African-Americans for Biden and Women for Biden to organize Black women voters. During this event, HBCU campus queens will have a roundtable discussion with actress and former Miss Florida A&M University, Angela Robinson.



This week's HBCU Students and Alum Phone Bank will begin with a discussion with Congressional Black Caucus members and then include a phone bank training and calling session.



"Shop Talk" is a weekly campaign event focused on engaging Black men. During this week's Shop Talk, professional athletes and student-athletes will discuss the struggles facing Black men and HBCU students and the importance of voting in this election. The event will be moderated by Vincent Evans, Senator Kamala Harris' Political Director and HBCU alumnus.



 will host a national HBCU Homecoming Rally. This rally will cap off a week of events celebrating the history of civic engagement and political activism at HBCUs across the country. The rally will feature marching bands, step teams, calls to action, personal stories from special guests, and exciting musical performances.



This virtual concert will feature HBCU gospel choirs, including the Texas Southern University Gospel Choir, and HBCU preachers.
