 
"I suggested we, in fact, ask to have access to the source of the problem [China]. And the best of our knowledge Trump never pushed that."
: Days after the coronavirus emerged in early January, the Trump Administration tried to get American officials into China; Biden didn't call for sending experts into China until 
, 50 days later.
"Then I wrote a piece in March about what I thought we should be doing to take hold of this using the, there's an act that was passed a long time ago that allows the President to go into a business and say stop making this and start making that. And, it took a long time for him to even institute that to get ventilators and so on."
: The "that" Biden could not name is the Defense Production Act, a law that he called for using only 
 President Trump had already used it.
"Most scientists say it is not likely to have a vaccine that would be available until the beginning of next year into the, into the spring of next year."
: Both the CDC and Dr. Fauci have said a vaccine is possible before the end of the year.
"There should be a plan. When we have the vaccine, how do we distribute it?"
The Trump Administration has laid out a detailed vaccine distribution strategy.
"You stated that anyone making less than $400,000 will not see one single penny of their taxes raised" 
: "That's right."
: Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will 
, including those making under $400,000.
"Moody's did an analysis. Of my detailed analysis of my tax plan and my economic plan. They said I will in four years – Moody's, Wall Street – said I will create 18.6 million new jobs. Good paying jobs. Number one. Number two, and I'll inc- and the GDP will grow by a trillion dollars more than it would under Trump. And 7 million more jobs than under Trump."
: The outfit Biden cited – Moody's – has a history of 
 economic policies.
 "He talks about a V-shaped recovery. It's a K-shaped recovery. If you're on the top you're going to do very well. And the other thing I'm co—and if you're in the bottom, if you're in the middle or the bottom, your income is coming down."
 President Trump is leading an unprecedented economic recovery that is benefitting all Americans.
"Under [President Trump's] trade policy, a lot of [jobs are] going overseas. You get a benefit from going overseas."
, saying President Trump's tax cuts are "believed to have broadly reduced incentives to invest overseas."
"The crime bill itself did not have mandatory sentences."
: The 
 included a "three strikes" provision that led to 
.
"My reading online, what the judge [Amy Coney Barrett] said, was she didn't answer very many questions at all, and I don't even think she has laid out much a judicial philosophy..."
: Judge Amy Coney Barrett answered roughly 18 hours of questions in her hearings and laid out her judicial philosophy as a strong originalist who interprets the Constitution "as law."
"I made a mistake of teaching constitutional law for 21 years."
: Biden was never a full-time teacher, and as an adjunct professor he was overpaid and frequently missed classes.
 "But don't voters have a right to know where you stand [on court packing]?" 
"They do have a right to know where I stand and they'll have a right to know where I stand before they vote" 
 "So you'll come out with a clear position before election day?" 
 "Yes, depending on how they handle this."
: Biden has refused to directly tell the American people whether he supports court packing.
"I make it clear I do not propose banning fracking."
 Biden has repeatedly expressed his support for banning fracking, wiping out fracking jobs, and eliminating the fossil fuel industry.
"There are over – well over 100,000 wells that are left uncapped in the region. We could hire 128,000 of these people who are working in the industry to cap these wells and get a good salary doing it now."
: There is no independent estimate to support Biden's claim, with studies showing such a policy would create only 10 to 20 percent as many jobs as Biden says nationwide, not in Pennsylvania alone.
"Sir, are you for it or against it? You say you're not for it, but in your website, it says you call it a crucial framework. The Green New Deal." 
"My deal is a crucial framework. But not the New Green Deal. The New Green Deal calls for elimination of all, all non-renewable energy by 2030. You can't get there."
Biden's website calls the Green New Deal a 
"I tell you, boilermakers overwhelmingly endorse me."
: Pittsburgh's Boilermakers Local 154 – representing 2,500 active and retired members in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia – 
 President Trump for re-election.
"You can ban chokeholds, you can — but beyond that, you have to teach people how to de-escalate circumstances. De-escalate. So, instead of anybody coming at you and the first thing you do is shoot to kill, you shoot them in the leg."
: Police have said Biden's idea to shoot suspects "in the leg" – which 
 – is "indecipherable" and uninformed.
: "Was it a mistake to support [the 1994 crime bill]?" 
: "Yes, it was."
 Joe Biden's 
, and said he was calling it a "mistake" to support a 1986 crime bill.
: "And then what happened was, when the first round of money for unemployment, enhanced unemployment went by, he didn't do anything. He didn't do anything."
 
saying "the day after" Democrats in Congress failed to act, he took action to bolster unemployment insurance
: "Before I came up here, I took another test. I've been taking them every day."
: Biden's own campaign says he has been taking a test every other day.
: "They have more people there [Afghanistan] now, by the way, than when we left."
: This is false; there are currently less troops in Afghanistan than there were at the end of the Obama Administration.
: "You have Americans, bounties on American military's heads in Afghanistan."
 Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is unproven.