 hosted a BEST (Business and Entrepreneur Talks) Series event on Wednesday, October 14. This week's event was focused on young business leaders and entrepreneurs from Florida and Georgia. The event featured guest panelists Justin McLeod, Founder and CEO of Surthrive, Ken Russell, Miami City Commissioner, Pilar Guzman Zavala, owner and CEO of Halfmoon Empanadas, Corey Arvinger, co-founder of Support Black Colleges, and Karen Pandy-Cherry, a leadership development coach, entrepreneur, speaker and advocate.

Panelists discussed their experiences as young business leaders, the importance of this election, and how the Biden-Harris agenda will support small businesses and young entrepreneurs.

See below for highlights from the event:

"It's not a time for us to sit still, Biden-Harris, they listen to us and they'll be able to correct what's been left so off-kilter," said 
, leadership development coach, entrepreneur, speaker and advocate.

"We see how hard the businesses are fighting to come back. As we're trying to reopen (the) economy, trying to balance that with health and safety," said 
, Miami City Commissioner. "We are not there for the small businesses as a state or federal government here in Florida. So it's left to the local governments to try and figure out— to cobble together— something to help these small business entrepreneurs thrive and survive."

"It's super important that the Build Back Better plan is expanding access to more than $150 billion dollars in capital," said 
, co-founder of Support Black Colleges. "Having money is just so helpful to a small business, a small black business. A lot of time we don't have the capital we need, even for day-to-day things. "

"With Biden's proposition, in regards to helping out the community, in return of getting some form of your student loans forgiven, I think that's a great way for young entrepreneurs, and individuals who are looking to build that generational wealth, and also give back and build up, the communities that they live in," said 
, Founder and CEO of Surthrive.

"I'm a woman, I'm a minority, I am a small business owner, I'm brown. I'm all of those things that could be considered a disadvantage, you know business in this country," said 
. "I want a president that can see me, and can consider America as everybody. Women, minorities, black, brown, everybody."