

President Trump and his administration took the threat of the coronavirus seriously from the 
, forming the Coronavirus Task Force in January and suspending travel with China, partnering with the private sector to overhaul and expand U.S. testing capacity, securing critical medical equipment, and taking critical steps early on to combat the coronavirus:

According to 
, the Trump Administration "acted very, very early" to combat the spread of the virus and 
 in putting in place mitigation strategies.
On February 11, top Biden coronavirus advisor Ron Klain 
 the Trump Administration was "far from doing nothing."
Even Democrat governors like Andrew Cuomo 
 the Trump Administration's response: "What the federal government did, working with states, was a phenomenal accomplishment." 


Joe Biden 
 President Trump's decision as "hysterical xenophobia."



President Trump 
 and replaced it with an innovative new testing strategy to meet the country's needs. 
The United States leads the world in coronavirus testing, with more than 100 million tests 
 and more than three million available per day.
"We needed a significant amount of the supply chain from the administration to allow us to at least double testing in New Jersey," 
 "We got it... they're helping us out."
The United States is 
, which allows officials to identify and stop local outbreaks faster than other countries.
"We are in a much better place on testing," 
, "thanks, in large part, to a Trump-administration strategy that the press scorned, or said didn't exist." 


President Trump 
 dozens of times to expand coronavirus testing technologies and capacity.
: "Production [of ventilators] was ramped up quickly working with manufacturers and occasionally using the DPA." 


President Trump launched 
 to guarantee that the American people are first in line for a safe, effective coronavirus vaccine—at no cost—as soon as one is developed.
The Trump Administration 
 to secure 100 million doses of a vaccine—with nearly half a billion more to potentially follow—as soon as it is successfully approved and manufactured. 
Multiple coronavirus vaccines are now in their final stages of development—an 
 accomplishment, according to NIH Director Dr. Francis Collins. 