

"The president said [coronavirus] was a hoax."

 Harris repeated a frequent lie from the Biden campaign that has been debunked by at least 8 fact checkers; President Trump never called the coronavirus a hoax.

"And in spite of all of that, today, they still don't have a plan. They still don't have a plan" on coronavirus.

 President Trump and his Administration have taken swift action on the coronavirus from the 
, leading a whole of government response to the pandemic.

"We now know because of great investigative journalism that Donald Trump paid $750 in taxes."

 Harris is wrong; President Trump paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.

"And through a plan that is about investing in infrastructure, something that Donald Trump said he would do. I remember hearing about some infrastructure week, I don't think it ever happened."

President Trump released an 
, and has repeatedly called on Congress to invest trillions in our infrastructure and included proposals in his budget to do just that.

"On the other hand, you have Donald Trump, who measures the strength of the economy based on how rich people are doing. Which is why he passed a tax bill benefiting the top 1 percent and the biggest corporations of America..."

 This claim is false and has repeatedly been debunked by 
 and even
.

"And the truth and the fact is, Joe Biden has been very clear, he will not raise taxes on anybody who makes less than $400,000 a year."

: Biden's $4 trillion tax hike will 
, including those making less than $400,000.

"The American people know that Joe Biden will not ban fracking. That is a fact. That is a fact."

 Biden repeatedly expressed support for wiping out fracking, the fossil fuel industry, and the jobs they support.

"Joe Biden is the one who, during the Great Recession, was responsible for the Recovery Act that brought America back. And now, the Trump-Pence Administration wants to take credit when they rode the coattails of Joe Biden's success for the economy that they had at the beginning of their term."

 Biden oversaw the 
, leaving behind millions of hard-working Americans.

"And of course now the economy is a complete disaster."

 Before the coronavirus pandemic, President Trump's pro-growth policies created millions of good-paying jobs and saw record historically low unemployment rates.

"You have Donald Trump who is in court right now trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which means that you will lose protections if you have pre-existing conditions."

 President Trump has fought and vowed to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions.

"The Vice President earlier referred to what he thinks is an accomplishment that the president's trade war with China. He lost that trade war. You lost it."

President Trump 
 and has achieved results for American workers and businesses, while Biden's trade policies with China cost millions of jobs.

"We are in a manufacturing recession because of it."

 Before the pandemic hit, American manufacturing was growing and adding jobs thanks to the President's pro-growth policies.

[The Obama-Biden Administration] created within the White House an office that basically was responsible for monitoring pandemics. [The Trump-Pence Administration] got rid of it."

 This is false; President Trump did not get rid of the National Security Council's pandemic response team

"[Trump] has referred to our men who are serving in our military as suckers and losers."

At least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article.

"Look at the Iran nuclear deal which now has put us in a position where we are less safe because they are building up what might end up being a significant nuclear arsenal."

 Harris' claim is false; the Obama-Biden Administration's deal left Iran with a path to a nuclear weapon.

"Donald Trump is in court right now trying to get rid of the affordable care act. And I said it before and it bears repeating, this means that there will be no more protection, if they win, for people with pre-existing conditions. This means that over 20 million people will lose your coverage."

 Harris' claim has been called "
," and President Trump has said 
 with pre-existing conditions, even if Obamacare is struck down.

"And Donald Trump when asked about it said there were 'fine people' on both sides."

 This is an 
 that Joe Biden has made; President Trump 
 and white supremacists in Charlottesville.

"I was the first statewide officer to institute a requirement that my agents would wear body cameras and keep them on full-time"

 As California's Attorney General, Harris did not mandate body cameras statewide.

"Public reporting that Russia had bounties on the heads of American soldiers. And you know what a bounty is? It's somebody puts a price on your head, and they pay it if you're killed."

Top military and intelligence officials have strongly emphasized that the reporting of bounties is unproven.

"In 1864 ... Abraham Lincoln was up for re-election, and it was 27 days before the election. And a seat became open on the United States Supreme Court. Abraham Lincoln's party was in charge not only of the White House but of the Senate. But Honest Abe said that it's not the right thing to do."

Lincoln didn't nominate a Supreme Court Justice because the Senate was out of session and he was concerned about 
. It wasn't because Lincoln thought the vacancy should wait.

: "You know this administration took the word 'science' off the website?"

 The word "science" was not scrubbed from U.S. government websites by the Trump Administration.

: "Let's talk about packing."

: Harris avoided answering whether a Biden-Harris administration would pack the Supreme Court, something that she previously said she was open to.

: "Last week, the President of the United States took to a debate stage in front of 70 million Americans and refused to condemn white supremacists."

This completely false and assertions that President Trump has refused to condemn white supremacists has 
 
.

: "We are 27 days before the decision about who will be the next president of the United States . . . And so Joe has been very clear, as the American people are, let the American people fill that seat in the White House, and then we'll fill that seat on the United States Supreme Court."

In 2016, Biden tried to push through the nomination of Merrick Garland despite it being an election year.
