Today, 
 announced the Small Business and Entrepreneurs Advisory Council, a coalition of leaders dedicated to mobilizing small business owners and entrepreneurs to vote for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. As small businesses and entrepreneurs around the country grapple with the economic crisis brought on by President Trump's failed response to COVID-19, these leaders are mobilizing to share Joe and Kamala's plan to build back better through strong investment in small businesses, entrepreneurs, and jobs that will reignite America's economy.

The Advisory Council includes more than two dozen entrepreneurs, small business policy leaders, business mentors and startup founders that built iconic American companies who share Joe Biden's vision for successful American small businesses. In addition to current and former small business owners and entrepreneurs, the council includes elected officials and former cabinet members committed to raising their voices and organizing their communities in support of the Biden-Harris campaign.

"America's small businesses are facing one of the worst crises in American history thanks to President Trump's inept management of COVID-19," said Rhett Buttle, 
National Business Advisor. "We're honored to bring together this group of entrepreneurs and small business leaders. These leaders know that as president, Joe Biden will stand up and fight for small business, ensure we can get this virus under control and get small businesses and entrepreneurs the tools and resources to build back better."

Members of the Small Business and Entrepreneurs Advisory Council include:


is already organizing small business owners and entrepreneurs nationwide and in key battleground states. The events are targeted to key sections of the small business community, including Latino, African American, AAPI, Native American, women, rural, LGBTQ+, disabled and other diverse business owners and leaders. The organizing opportunities will mobilize the small business community in support of the Biden-Harris campaign, and provide an opportunity for small business leaders to connect, learn about 
 and 
.