Pool Reports by 
, 




?The pool is at the White House and has received a COVID test. Other reporters who were exposed in recent days due to travel with the president are also here being tested.

As of now, there are no public events in the schedule. 


?The pool is loaded into press vans for a drive to Walter Reed. We rolled out at 10:05 am. -- 


?The pool arrived at Walter Reed at about 10:32 am.

We did not see any crowds outside the entrance where we pulled in.

We are holding in front of the main tower. As of now, there are no further schedule updates. 


?Your pooler still has no updates on any potential briefing today.

We wanted to flag this statement from Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany about her positive test results this morning:



?The pool remains stationed outside the main tower at Walter Reed.

Radio pooler Tamara Keith just heard from Judd Deere who said he has "no updates" about a potential medical briefing. 


The only update your pooler can provide is that the garbage bag remains on top of the podium here in front of the main tower at Walter Reed.

Your pooler reached out to Kayleigh McEnany, Alyssa Farah, and Judd Deere to ask if they cna provide information about the total number of people on the White House staff who have tested positive for COVID. As of this writing, we have not received a response.

While the pool did not see any crowds outside the entrance we used to drive onto the complex, we have heard periodic faint shouts and bursts of car horns off to the southwest of the hospital. 


The White House sent the following statement to the pool:

"Dr. Sean Conley, Physician to the President, is expected to provide an update on the President's condition in the 3 p.m. hour at Walter Reed." 


As you may have seen, a few minutes ago, President Trump made the following statement:

"I will be leaving the great Walter Reed Medical Center today at 6:30 P.M. Feeling really good! Don't be afraid of Covid. Don't let it dominate your life. We have developed, under the Trump Administration, some really great drugs & knowledge. I feel better than I did 20 years ago!"

We are still awaiting the briefing in the 3pm hour. The microphones have been set up and the garbage bag was removed. 


?WH Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino emerged from Walter Reed at about 3:11 pm. Both were masked. They were followed by Dr. Sean Conley and the president's medical team, who are now briefing.

This briefing is being broadcast live. Please refer to the broadcast for detailed quotes. 


?Dr. Conley concluded the briefing at about 3:27 pm as Chief of Staff Meadows said, "I think that's it."

The doctors and staffers have now gone back inside the tower. 


?Wanted to make sure you all saw the schedule update that was just sent out by the White House. President Trump is currently set to leave Walter Reed at 6:30pm via Marine One. He is scheduled to arrive back at the White House about ten minutes later.

The pool is currently setting up outside the tower at Walter Reed to see the president's departure.

As of this writing, the White House has not responded to the question from your pooler about how many staffers have tested positive for COVID. 


At about 6:11 pm staffers began setting up lights outside the Walter Reed tower where POTUS is set to emerge. Roughly a minute later, a helicopter, which was presumably Marine One, could be heard landing on the lawn nearby. A motorcade has also moved in place to take POTUS from the entrance to the Walter Reed Emergency Landing Zone.-- 


A masked President Trump emerged from Walter Reed at about 6:38 pm. Staffers held open the doorsfor his exit. He briefly stood at the top of the steps before walking past the pool.

As the president walked by, he ignored questions about how many of the White House staffers are "sick" and whether he is a "superspreader."

"Thank you very much everybody," Trump said, giving a slight wave.

In the hour leading up to the president's departure, staffers and Secret Service agents cane in and out of the hospital. Several wore prominent N95 masks and carried safety goggles. At one point, a pair of masked staffers walked through the pool and quipped, "We've been tested."

The pool is now in the press vans for the quick motorcade trip to the Walter Reed Emergency Landing Zone where POTUS is boarding Marine One. 


?President Trump disembarked the motorcade at about 6:42 pm. He briefly turned toward the cameras and gave a thumbs up before boarding Marine One.

Marine One was wheels up at 6:46 pm. The trip to the White House, where your supplemental pool will take over, is scheduled to take about ten minutes. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




?Marine One landed at 6:54

POTUS emerged at 6:57. He wore a white mask and blue striped tie. Wave d repeatedly.

No doubt as a show of fitness, he Walked up south portico stairs. Then Trump stood at portico facing the South Lawn and saluted Marine One.

After lift off he saluted again then went inside.

Before landing, a masked Peter Navarro stood before the entrance.

Remarks were few and impossible to hear. Please check video. 


It was over by 7:02. Ace Steve Herman sent me this.

In my audio to my shouts of "how do you feel?" I can barely hear Trump say: "Real good."

I believe POTUS also said something from portico.

Lid called c. 7:21 