







"Former Vice President Joe Biden on Tuesday seemingly committed to releasing a shortlist of Black women he would consider as potential Supreme Court nominees ahead of November's general election We are putting together a list of a group of African American women who are qualified and have the experience to be on the court,' Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Del., after delivering a speech focused on President Donald Trump's response to the coronavirus pandemic." (Quint Forgey, "Biden Says He'll Release List Of Black Women As Potential SCOTUS Nominees," 
, 6/30/20)





"Progressive activists have called upon Biden to release a list of candidates he would consider appointing to the Supreme Court — a tactic Trump memorably embraced in 2016 in an effort to shore up conservative support during his first White House bid." (Quint Forgey, "Biden Says He'll Release List Of Black Women As Potential SCOTUS Nominees," 
, 6/30/20)



"Don't expect a list of potential #SCOTUS nominees from Biden. From a campaign aide: 'The person who wins the election on November 3rd should get to nominate the next Justice. If Biden is fortunate enough to win that election, he will make a nomination ...'" (Ken Thomas, 
, 9/19/20)

JOE BIDEN: "We can't keep rewriting history, scrambling norms, ignoring our cherished system of checks and balances. That includes this whole business of releasing a list of potential nominees that I would put forward. They're now saying, after Ruth Bader Ginsburg passed away, they said, 'Biden should release his list.' It's no wonder the Trump campaign asked that I release the list only after she passed away. It's a game for them. It's a play to [inaudible] up emotions and anger. There's a reason why no presidential candidate, other than Donald Trump, has ever done such a thing." (Joe Biden, 
, Philadelphia, PA, 9/20/20)



 JOE BIDEN: "After Ruth Bader Ginsburg passed away, they said Biden should release his list. It's no wonder the Trump campaign asked that I release the list only after she'd passed away. It's a game for them. It's a play to gin up emotions and anger." (Joe Biden, 
, Philadelphia, PA, 9/21/20)






 (Daniel Dale, "Fact Check: Biden Falsely Claims Trump Campaign Only Asked Him For Supreme Court List After Ruth Bader Ginsburg Died," 
, 9/20/20)







(
, 6/20/20)

(
, 9/9/20)

("President Trump Releases List Of Prospective Supreme Court Nominees, Biden Must Do The Same," 
, 9/9/30)

("Who Would Joe Biden Put On The Supreme Court? He Won't Say." 
, 9/17/20)





 DONALD J. TRUMP: "And one of the things I'm going to do, and this is perhaps breaking. I am gonna give a list of either five or ten judges that I will pick. 100 percent pick. That I will put in for nomination . . . Because a lot of people, a lot of people are very worried that if I got in, that if I got in, I would put in the wrong judges. And I'm gonna put in the right judges, okay? I'm going to put in great conservative judges, great intellects, the people that you want." (Donald J. Trump, 
, 3/21/16)






(Press Release, "Donald J. Trump Releases List Of Potential United States Supreme Court Justices," 
, 5/18/20)

(Reena Flores and Major Garrett, "Donald Trump Expands List Of Possible Supreme Court Picks," 
, 9/23/16)

("President Donald J. Trump's Supreme Court List," 
, 11/17/17)

 "President Donald J. Trump today released a list of twenty additional names he will consider nominating as U.S. Supreme Court justices should vacancies occur on the high court in the coming months or in a second term. President Trump released a similar well-received list during the 2016 campaign because voters deserve a clear understanding of a candidate's vision of the direction of the Supreme Court." (Press Release, "President Trump Releases List Of Prospective Supreme Court Nominees, Biden Must Do The Same," 
, 9/9/20; "Additions to President Donald J. Trump's Supreme Court List," 
, 9/9/20)