Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning --

I'll be your in-town pooler today. Pool has been tested for Covid. There are no public events on the president's schedule today. I will keep you posted on any updates. 


?Pool gathered at 8:45 am and loaded into the press vans in the motorcade. Destination unknown. -- 


?Motorcade is rolling at 9:28. Pool did not see POTUS. Destination still unknown. 


?The motorcade arrived at the Trump National Golf club at 10:08 after an uneventful ride. There was a gathering of both pro and anti Trump signs and protesters outside the club— pool saw both Biden and Trump 2020 signs, a couple signs noting the 200k coronavirus death count, and one person dressed in a red Handmaid's Tale costume holding a sign that said "vote."

Pool did not see POTUS. Press now headed to the offsite location where we will wait. 


?Motorcade is rolling at 1:58 back to the White House from the Trump National golf club. Pool did not see POTUS.

There is still a cluster of protesters outside the club, both pro and anti Trump. One sign read "GOP senators are hypocrites." Another person was laying out small fake gravestones along the side of the road with a sign that said "he knew." Another sign said "Epic failure democracy killer." There were also pro-Trump flags and 3 Jeeps drove back and forth on the road with Trump campaign flags waving from the back. Dueling chants of "vote him out" and "four more years" broke out among the assembled group. The chants intensified when the motorcade began rolling. There were about 20 protesters on one side of the street; pool didn't have visibility to count on the other side, but it was a roughly similar amount. 


?Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 2:39. Pool briefly glimpsed POTUS walking back into the residence. 


?We have a lunch lid until 4 pm.-- 


POTUS's news conference, originally scheduled for 5 pm, will now begin at 5:30, according to an overhead announcement. 


At 5:13, we have a 2 minute warning to POTUS's news conference. (After pushing the briefing to 5:30, they have now moved it back to 5:15.)

The presser will be live streamed, so your pooler won't be sending quotes, but will send if there's any color that wouldn't be visible on TV. 


POTUS walked into the briefing room at 5:31. Chris Christie, Rudy Giuliani and Kayleigh McEnany are also in the briefing room. "Does anybody know these two gentlemen?" POTUS said when he walked in, referencing Giuliani and Christie. "You shouldn't be here if you don't."

POTUS is now speaking.

The remarks are being carried live so your pooler won't be sending quotes, but will send any color that may not be visible onscreen. 


POTUS left the briefing room at 6:08 pm. 


?We have a travel/photo lid at 6:32 pm. Enjoy the rest of your evening! 