WASHINGTON — Today, the Biden-Harris Transition team announced 
, Chair of the Board of Trustees of the McCain Institute for International Leadership at Arizona State University and the widow of U.S. Senator John McCain, will join the Transition team's diverse and bipartisan advisory board. This news follows Mrs. McCain's endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden for President last Tuesday.

"Cindy McCain is joining our already strong advisory board of diverse experts who are committed to ensuring a Biden-Harris administration is ready to meet our country's most urgent challenges on Day One," 
 "This transition is like no other, preparing amid the backdrop of a global health crisis and struggling economy, which makes Mrs. McCain's experience as a business woman, philanthropist, and longtime advocate for issues impacting women and children all the more valuable."

The Biden-Harris Transition team's co-chairs, advisory board and senior leadership are an experienced group of experts who are prepared to lay the groundwork for a possible Biden administration and are ready to tackle the challenges facing our country.

Each advisory board member has been asked to provide counsel to the Biden-Harris Transition team as it plans to respond to the major crises the country is facing - particularly the public health crisis and the recession. This is all part of the bold strategy Vice President Biden has outlined for working families, which includes unprecedented investments in American competitiveness and our middle class.

Diversity of ideology and background is a core value of the transition, and today's announcement is another step demonstrating the importance of unifying the country under a Biden-Harris administration. McCain is the second registered Republican to join the advisory board. She joins Bob McDonald, Retired Chairman, President & CEO of The Procter & Gamble Company and 8th Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs.



Anita Dunn


Michelle Lujan Grisham


Ted Kaufman


Cedric Richmond


Jeff Zients


Dr. Tony Allen


Jared Bernstein


Pete Buttigieg


Leslie Caldwell


Mark Gitenstein


Cecilia Martinez


Bob McDonald


Minyon Moore


Dr. Vivek Murthy


Ambassador Susan E. Rice


Teresa Romero


Cathy Russell


Lonnie Stephenson


Felicia Wong


Sally Yates