"President Trump could not have made a better decision. Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an exceptionally impressive jurist and an exceedingly well-qualified nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States."

: "The president had a strong list of principled and conservative jurists from which he could have chosen, and I applaud him for his selection of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court."

"President Trump just knocked it out of the park with his Supreme Court nominee. There is no question that Amy Coney Barrett is the best-qualified person to uphold the Constitution. The Senate should confirm her quickly."

 "Another great Supreme Court pick by @realDonaldTrump. Amy Coney Barrett is an impeccable jurist and an extraordinarily thoughtful, principled woman committed to our Constitution—and a New Orleans native! She deserves a swift, fair Senate process focused on her qualifications."

"Judge Barrett is an excellent choice to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. She is exceptionally qualified and her record demonstrates an unwavering fidelity to the Constitution."

"Judge Barrett is highly qualified in all the areas that matter – character, integrity, intellect, and judicial disposition. She is an outstanding #SupremeCourt nominee by President @realDonaldTrump."

: "Judge Barrett demonstrated her brilliant legal mind before the Judiciary Committee in 2017 and in more than 100 opinions since joining the Seventh Circuit. … She is eminently qualified for the Supreme Court."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a legal trailblazer with a deep respect for the law and our nation's founding principles."

: "Judge Barrett is going to be a fantastic Supreme Court justice. I think she'll be a textualist and an originalist. She'll be devoted to the principle of constitutionality limited government."

: "Judge Barrett is well-qualified to serve on the United States Supreme Court. Having confirmed her to the circuit court in 2017 with bipartisan support, the Senate has already undertaken a thorough and rigorous review of her record."

: "Judge Barrett is a brilliant legal thinker and will be an excellent Supreme Court Justice."

"This is a big moment for religious conservatives. For years we've been told to take a back seat in #SCOTUS nominations, but not any longer. @realDonaldTrump has chosen a nominee in #AmyConeyBarrett who religious conservatives can call one of their own"

"Today, President @realDonaldTrump nominated Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. Judge Barrett is an incredible, well-qualified judge who interprets the Constitution as written and she will protect the rights of all Americans."

: "Today, Judge Amy Coney Barrett joins a growing, but still far too small, group of women nominated to serve on our nation's highest court. Judge Barrett is an experienced jurist, a working mom of seven, an accomplished legal scholar, and a fellow Midwesterner."

: "Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett for this high honor. I look forward to the opportunity to meet with her to learn and understand more deeply about her judicial philosophy."

: "@realDonaldTrump has nominated an impressive jurist in Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who has real-world experience in the classroom and in the courtroom."

: "Congratulations to the Honorable Amy Coney Barrett. Judge Barrett is an outstanding jurist and a committed constitutionalist. She is an excellent nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court and I look forward to hearing her testimony before @senjudiciary."

"I congratulate Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to serve on our nation's highest court."

"Our next Supreme Court Justice must be a steadfast supporter of upholding our nation's Constitution. I have no doubt in Judge Barrett's qualifications and I look forward to supporting her nomination."

: "Congratulations to Judge Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court. She's well qualified for the job given her extensive legal and academic experience. Like the president's previous nominees, she understands her Constitutional role."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is one of the finest legal minds of her generation and has now proven to be a wise judge as well. I congratulate Judge Barrett on her nomination and I commend President Trump for another outstanding choice."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a highly qualified nominee, who I look forward to meeting with and evaluating in the upcoming weeks."

: "Judge Barrett is a well-qualified, highly respected nominee, and that's why the Senate previously confirmed her… I believe Judge Barrett would make an excellent Supreme Court justice, and I look forward to once again supporting her nomination in the U.S. Senate."

: "I applaud President @realDonaldTrump's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to service on the U.S. Supreme Court. She is a brilliant legal mind who understands the proper and distinct roles of the three branches of government."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an outstanding choice to serve on our nation's highest court."

: "I'm proud to support #AmyConeyBarrett as @realDonaldTrump's nominee for #SCOTUS. I'm confident she will protect individual liberties like the right to life & the 2nd Amendment by ensuring the Constitution & our laws are applied as written. Congratulations, Judge Barrett!"

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett for this high honor. Judge Barrett has a reputation as an exemplary jurist and Constitutionalist, and I look forward to meeting with her to learn more about her judicial philosophy."

 "Amy Coney Barrett has shown through her nearly one hundred written opinions on the appellate court that she is a strong Constitutional originalist who will not cut the American people out of their own government by treating the Supreme Court as a third chamber of Congress."

: "I am thrilled with @POTUS's nomination of fellow Hoosier, Judge Amy Coney Barrett, to serve on the Supreme Court. I've come to know her as an incredibly sharp legal mind, a woman of great integrity, and a dedicated mother of seven."

"I look forward to meeting with Judge Amy Coney Barrett, and I congratulate her on this most prestigious nomination."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a well-qualified nominee, having served as a clerk for Justice Scalia and distinguishing herself as a law professor at Notre Dame before receiving bipartisan support during her confirmation to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals."

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court. I believe she will make an excellent justice that will serve our country and Constitution well, and I look forward to seeing her confirmed soon."

"Judge Barrett would be only the second Supreme Court justice from Louisiana, and she's going to make our state and nation proud."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett, in both her judicial record and philosophy, has made clear her commitment to interpreting and upholding the law and the Constitution as they are written. I was proud to support her confirmation to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals and look forward to supporting her confirmation to the Supreme Court."

 "I commend President Trump on another exceptional pick for the high court, and I hope to meet with Judge Barrett soon."

: "@realdonaldtrump has exercised his right to put forth a nominee to fill a #SCOTUS vacancy. In Judge Amy Coney Barrett, I believe the President has chosen a qualified conservative jurist who would bring an important perspective to the Court."

: "Judge Barrett will defend our Montana way of life from those that want to take away our 2nd Amendment rights and destroy our jobs."

"President Trump has made a solid choice in nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. Judge Barrett is a highly accomplished and respected candidate."

: "I am encouraged that @realDonaldTrump has announced Judge Amy Coney Barrett as his nominee to serve as the next Justice on the Supreme Court. As a young mother on the 7th circuit court with a history clerking for Justice Scalia, she is a brilliant choice."

: "We congratulate Judge Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court. Judge Barrett has an outstanding record of accomplishment as well as a strong record of upholding the law, rather than legislating from the bench."

: "Excellent choice, President @realDonaldTrump Judge Amy Coney Barrett seems made for this moment. She's a brilliant legal scholar who's come face-to-face with the appalling attacks of the far-left and won."

: "I welcome the nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to serve as the next Associate Justice of the #SCOTUS. Judge Barrett is a well regarded jurist with a distinguished record of service who was confirmed by the Senate nearly 3 years ago for the 7th Circuit."

: "@realDonaldTrump made the right choice by choosing Amy Coney Barrett to serve on the Supreme Court."

: "She is a dedicated mother of seven, a wife, and a person of strong faith. She is clearly well prepared for the task. Her education, experience and personal convictions all play an important role in her judicial philosophy as a strict constructionist."

: "I am pleased that President Trump has nominated Judge Amy Coney Barrett to sit on the U.S. Supreme Court."

: "From her time as a clerk for Justice Antonin Scalia, to her work as an esteemed law professor and judge, Amy Coney Barrett has proven she would be a fantastic pick for the Supreme Court."

: "President @realDonaldTrump has made an excellent choice in nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court."

: "Amy Coney Barrett is a highly-respected jurist with distinguished legal and academic credentials."

: "Less than three years ago, Amy Coney Barrett was confirmed on a bipartisan basis as a judge on the Federal 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. I was pleased to vote for her then, and I expect to support her confirmation as a justice on the Supreme Court."

: "President Trump has selected another outstanding Supreme Court candidate by nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett."

: "This is a historic choice by @realDonaldTrump. Judge Barrett is a highly qualified nominee. She will apply the law, not legislate from the bench."

 "The nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court is a big win for this country."

: "Amy Coney Barrett was confirmed by the Senate to the U.S. Court of Appeals in 2017. She has already been vetted. She should easily and quickly be confirmed again."

"I congratulate Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to serve on the Supreme Court, and I look forward to following her upcoming confirmation process in the Senate."

 "The President's nomination to the highest court has the experience, intellect, and perspective that will one day show her to be a revered Justice."

: "@POTUS has nominated a well-qualified jurist to fill the vacancy left by the passing of Justice Ginsburg."

: "Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent pick for the Supreme Court. She's a brilliant legal scholar with impeccable credentials, and her originalist approach to the Constitution will hopefully reverse the Court's trend of legislating from the bench."

 "I congratulate Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Judge Barrett's impressive body of jurisprudence exemplifies a legal philosophy rooted in upholding the Constitution, the bedrock of our nation."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a highly qualified jurist for our nation's highest court, and she has been well regarded and respected by her colleagues."

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett. She is a brilliant choice and will interpret our beloved constitution as written."

: "Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her #SCOTUS nomination! President @realDonaldTrump has picked a distinguished judge, and I am confident she will defend the Constitution and rule of law."

 "Judge Barrett has been described as a 'champion of originalism.' That record gives me confidence that she will leave the policy making to Congress, where it belongs."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent pick by President Trump for the Supreme Court. She is a brilliant legal mind and solid conservative. The Senate should confirm her immediately."

"Thrilled that @realDonaldTrump has nominated Amy Coney Barrett to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court left by the passing of RBG."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett's brilliance, exceptional credentials, and impressive record serve as proof that she will be an excellent addition to the U.S. Supreme Court."

"I applaud @realDonaldTrump's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the U.S. Supreme Court."

"Amy Coney Barrett will be a great addition to the #SCOTUS bench & will fiercely defend our constitution!"

 "Thank you @POTUS for keeping your word to nominate an individual with a record of preserving our liberties as enshrined in the Constitution of the United States."

"Amy Coney Barrett is the perfect pick, and I look forward to her swift confirmation."

: "#AmyConeyBarrett is a dedicated Catholic, devoted mother of 7, and proud Constitutionalist. She's a great choice for the job to succeed Justice Ginsburg."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an outstanding selection by President @realDonaldTrump to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court."

 "I applaud President Trump for nominating 7th Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court."

"
 outstanding selection as your nominee to the Supreme Court: Amy Coney Barrett. U.S. Senate quickly confirm this nominee!!!"

"I can think of no one better qualified to serve on the Supreme Court than my fellow Hoosier, Judge Amy Coney Barrett."

"Thank you President Donald Trump for nominating to the U.S. Supreme Court the Honorable Amy Coney Barrett, of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit."

"@realDonaldTrump hits another home run with his third #SCOTUS nomination."

: "I applaud @realDonaldTrump's nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett as the 9th member of the Supreme Court."

"Amy Coney Barrett is a solid Constitutionalist and highly regarded judge. She will make an excellent addition to our nation's highest court."

 "President Trump has made an excellent decision in nominating Amy Coney Barrett for the Supreme Court. Judge Barrett is a skilled jurist with an exceptional record. I hope the Senate acts in a timely manner to confirm this highly qualified nominee."

"I applaud President Trump for his selection of another highly qualified Supreme Court nominee."

 "I applaud President Trump for nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett, a Constitutional conservative who will be steadfast in her pursuit of the original intent of our founding documents and the law. I encourage the Senate to swiftly confirm her."

 "I applaud @realDonaldTrump's Supreme Court pick to #FillTheSeat!"

 "Judge Barrett is one of our most well respected legal minds. President Trump has once again honored his commitment to appoint judges who put the Constitution and rule of law above all else."

: "Judge Barrett is a woman of extraordinary intellect who has dedicated her life and career to the judicial system and to the rule of law."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent decision by President Trump as a nominee to fill the vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court. I look forward to a swift confirmation in the U.S. Senate."

"President Trump's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett is an exciting and important step toward the long-sought goal of a Supreme Court that reliably honors the Constitution and enacted laws and refrains from legislating. I urge the Senate to confirm Judge Barrett promptly."

: "Amy Coney Barrett is a proven originalist. She has a record of interpreting the laws as they are written rather than incorporating her own political beliefs into her decisions."

"Congratulations to Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court by President @realDonaldTrump"

 "Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her well deserved nomination to the Supreme Court!"

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett, a former clerk for Justice Scalia, Notre Dame law professor, federal appeals court judge for the Seventh Circuit, mother of 7, and a protector of the U.S. Constitution. She will apply the law fairly, reasonably, and as written."

"Totally support @POTUS Trump decision to nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to SCOTUS. Outstanding choice."

"President @realDonaldTrump made a superb decision to nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to serve on the Supreme Court."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett was just nominated to the highest court in our land; a great honor for a US jurist."

: "Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett! I'm confident she will be a great addition to #SCOTUS."

 "President Trump makes another great pick! Amy Coney Barrett is a beyond excellent choice for the United States Supreme Court."

 "In nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett to fill the vacant seat on the Supreme Court, @POTUS is fulfilling his constitutional obligation, & he is right to do so."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a brilliant legal mind, an outstanding person, and the right choice for the Supreme Court."

: "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a qualified jurist and principled originalist who has a proven record of upholding the U.S. Constitution. I urge the Senate to follow historical precedent and ensure that this #SCOTUS nominee receives just consideration."

 "This is a great pick by @realDonaldTrump. Amy Coney Barrett will have a lasting impact on our judicial system."

: "Bravo to @realDonaldTrump for the outstanding nomination of a strong, thoughtful, and brilliant jurist, and one who will impact the Supreme Court for decades to come."

"By every measure of both competence and experience, Amy Coney Barrett appears to be a highly qualified nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court."

 "Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent pick by the Trump Administration for the next Supreme Court Justice. She is experienced, accomplished, and a great defender of the Constitution."

"I commend @realDonaldTrump for nominating Judge Amy Coney Barrett for the Supreme Court Justice position."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a brilliant jurist committed to interpreting the Constitution as our Founders intended. I fully support her nomination and swift confirmation."

"I support President Donald Trump's decision to nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court."

"I applaud President Trump's nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court."

 "President Trump makes history again! Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a strong constitutionalist and an excellent choice for #SCOTUS. I look forward to her swift confirmation in the Senate."

"Judge #ACB has impeccable integrity, exceptional credentials, and the highest regard for the Constitution and rule of law. I applaud President @realDonaldTrump for another stellar appointment to the Supreme Court."

"I would like to congratulate @POTUS on a stellar Supreme Court nominee in Amy Coney Barrett."

 "I fully support President Trump fulfilling his constitutional duty by nominating the Honorable Amy Coney Barrett to fill the recent Supreme Court vacancy."

 "Amy Coney Barrett has devoted her life to serving the Constitution. Her nomination to the Supreme Court reflects a distinguished career and stellar judicial mind."

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court today! Well deserved!"

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is immensely qualified & will adhere strictly to the text of laws & the wording of the Constitution. She will bring bring extensive experience to the bench."

: "A great choice! I applaud @POTUS for this decision to nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. She's qualified and deeply respected for her great legal mind. I trust she will uphold the rule of law and defend the Constitution."

: "I applaud President Trump's decision to nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to fill the Supreme Court vacancy left behind by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg."




"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an exceptionally qualified jurist who will make an excellent US Supreme Court Associate Justice."

"I commend @POTUS' nomination of Judge Barrett to #SCOTUS. She'll embody the precedent est. by Justice RBG & prove that a woman can be a wife, mother, & person of faith, while still effectively performing her duties as a justice."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett will make an excellent Supreme Court justice. … She is a sound jurist whose years of legal service will bring much-needed diversity to the Supreme Court. President Trump has made a wise choice."

"I'm thrilled to see President Trump nominate Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an accomplished and excellent jurist, who will serve all Americans from Washington to the territories honorably on our nation's highest court."

 "Excellent choice by @POTUS @realDonaldTrump, and congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on your historic SCOTUS nomination!"

"President @realdonaldtrump has nominated an incredibly qualified, objective jurist and law professor to serve on the Supreme Court."

: "Judge Barrett's compelling combination of experience and intellect would serve our country well on the Supreme Court bench, adding another healthy dose of Hoosier hospitality to our nation's capital."

"Idaho supports President Trump's Supreme Court Nominee!"

"#AmyConeyBarrett is a fierce protector of our Constitution and an inspiration for women across our nation."

"I am thrilled about the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett! A strong constitutionalist. Means a lot for my girls to see such an example of strong, southern, Godly leadership from a conservative woman at the highest levels of the law. Ignore the inevitable slander and confirm her!"

"Congrats to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination by @realDonaldTrump, an excellent choice to be the next U.S. Supreme Court justice and 5th woman to serve on the nation's highest court."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is highly qualified to serve on our nation's highest court. She has an outstanding record of respecting the Constitution and the rule of law, and I strongly urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly confirm her nomination."

"As President of the United States, President Trump has the constitutional obligation to put forward a U.S. Supreme Court nominee, and I applaud his selection of Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who is both highly qualified and highly respected."

"I would like to congratulate POTUS @realDonaldTrump for exercising his constitutional obligation to nominate Justice Barrett to fill the vacancy in the SCOTUS."

"Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent choice by President @realDonaldTrump I'm confident she will serve on the Supreme Court with distinction - guided by the Constitution and the rule of law."

: "Liberals and their media allies always attack strong women who defend the Constitution. So I hope South Dakotans will join me in praying for Judge Amy Coney Barrett and her family."

"Excellent pick with a Tennessee connection. Congratulations to Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination and looking forward to a swift confirmation."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a remarkable individual who will make an outstanding Supreme Court Justice."

"My sincere congratulations go out to @realDonaldTrump on an outstanding selection for the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Amy Coney Barrett's career is proof that she is committed to upholding our Constitution and the rule of law."

"Congratulations to Judge Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination by @realDonaldTrump to the #SCOTUS. Her career as a jurist has demonstrated a commitment to our Constitution and the rule of law."

"President Trump is fulfilling his Constitutional oath and his obligation to the American people by putting forward a Supreme Court nominee."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett has a brilliant legal mind, impeccable credentials—no. 1 in law school class & clerk for Justice Scalia—& strong fidelity to our Constitution & rule of law. She & our country deserve a fair and respectful hearing, & I look forward to her confirmation."

"Congratulations Judge Amy Coney Barrett for your nomination to #SCOTUS. I look forward to you serving our nation's highest court with honor and distinction."

 "There are no two ways about it - Judge Amy Coney Barrett is imminently qualified to serve on our nations highest court. As I recall this moment from a her last confirmation hearing, I'm reminded she is not only a remarkable jurist, she's also a devoted mother and wife."

 "Excited and motivated by Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President @realDonaldTrump's superb pick to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States!"

"I am pleased that Louisiana-native, Amy Coney Barrett has been nominated by @realDonaldTrump to the Supreme Court. Amy, a graduate of St. Mary's Dominican High School, is a conservative intellectual, a great choice for our country's highest court, and a wonderful ambassador of LA"

"As a Catholic woman in government, I could not be more supportive of President @realDonaldTrump's U.S. Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett. I'm thankful to our President for taking bold action in his selection of a strong, smart, conservative woman."

"Congratulations to Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court by @realdonaldtrump."

 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who clerked for Justice Scalia, is a woman of unimpeachable character and integrity, an attorney of extraordinary intellect and accomplishment, and a jurist of the highest caliber and order."

"Pres. @realDonaldTrump has again nominated an exceptional legal scholar to serve on the nation's highest court."

"Phenomenal pick by @realDonaldTrump. Judge Amy Coney Barrett will be a faithful servant to the rule of law. Tremendous to see another working mother nominated to serve on the nation's highest court."

"Amy Coney Barrett is an exemplary jurist and an extraordinary mother. She is accomplished and hardworking, and she understands the Constitution and the #RuleOfLaw. We need a full Court this term."

"Fantastic #SCOTUS pick by @RealDonaldTrump. Judge Barrett
is a courageous defender of the Constitution and her record speaks for itself. I'm confident @senatemajldr will make sure she's confirmed."

"The defense of life and liberty depends on a complete Supreme Court. That is why I applaud the President for ignoring leftist hypocrisy and fulfilling his Constitutional responsibility without delay. I hope the U.S. Senate will also fulfill their Constitutional duty and quickly confirm Judge Barrett."

"The selection of #AmyConeyBarrett for #SCOTUS by @realDonaldTrump is an absolute home run. She's an incredible jurist, a true originalist and someone who has lived an incredible life of service."

"Amy Coney Barrett is an exemplary jurist. Accomplished, honest, hardworking. She will be a fair Justice and deserves a fair confirmation process."

 "Great to see that @realDonaldTrump has nominated Amy Coney Barrett to be the next Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Judge Barrett has impeccable and unassailable credentials."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett has served the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit with honor. Her numerous accomplishments have prepared her for this moment, including clerking for Justice Scalia. The time is right for her to rise to the highest Court of the land."

"Court of Appeals Judge Amy Coney Barrett is President Trump's best judicial nomination yet. Brilliant, clear-eyed and capable, she will apply the law is it is written, not as she wishes it to be."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett will be an outstanding addition to the U.S. Supreme Court."

"Amy Coney Barrett is an accomplished and honorable jurist, who deserves a fair process and confirmation. The Constitution and history are on our side."

"May God shield Amy Coney Barrett and her family during this process. She will make an exceptional justice on the United States Supreme Court."

"Amy Coney Barrett is an incredible candidate for the high court who has a deep and abiding respect for the Rule of Law. She's a respected jurist, accomplished professor, dedicated wife, mother and woman of faith. I urge Congress to confirm her before Election Day."

 "Judge Barrett is a fantastic pick by President Trump. She brings a wealth of experience and judicial wisdom to the Supreme Court. She is a respected scholar, a highly qualified jurist and a principled woman of faith."




"President Trump has put forth a highly qualified individual with the nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett."

"Honored to be at the @WhiteHouse today as President Trump announced that the incredibly qualified Judge Amy Coney Barrett is his Supreme Court nominee."

"I applaud President @realDonaldTrump's nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is a highly qualified jurist with a brilliant legal mind and the right temperament to interpret the U.S. Constitution."

"President @realDonaldTrump has made a strong choice in selecting Amy Coney Barrett as his Supreme Court nominee."

"Judge Barrett is an excellent choice and will uphold the rule of law should she be confirmed. I applaud @POTUS's decision to nominate an originalist to the highest court."




 "Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent nominee to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, with a proven track record of upholding the Constitution and the rule of law."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett must be confirmed before the election."

"President Donald Trump has fulfilled his constitutional responsibility to nominate Amy Coney Barrett for a seat on the Supreme Court. Coney Barrett is highly qualified jurist and would make an outstanding associate justice."

"AFP's activists proudly support the confirmation of Judge Amy Coney Barrett. We are confident that she will embrace her role to safeguard the constitutional rights of the people while recognizing that we elect Congress, not the courts, to legislate."

"Amy Coney Barrett is the best and most qualified successor for the iconic Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the United States Supreme Court. The President made a wise choice."

"President @realDonaldTrump could not have picked a better Supreme Court nominee."

"Judge Barrett has displayed a seriousness of purpose and is dedicated to finding and applying the Constitution's original public meaning."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an excellent selection who has shown a rock-solid commitment to originalism and the Constitution."

"Conservative women are rejoicing today on this significant moment where President Donald Trump has, for the first time in our nation's history, given conservative women a voice on the nation's highest court. Amy Coney Barrett is a constitutionalist, a top-notch legal scholar, and simply the best choice for this seat."

"I have long criticized the near monopoly held by Harvard, Yale, and Columbia in modern nominations. A graduate of Notre Dame, Barrett brings a long needed educational diversity to the court."

 "From a Second Amendment perspective, Judge Amy Coney Barrett appears to be a strong choice. "

"Amy Coney Barrett is the principled conservative we need on the Supreme Court bench right now. She is an accomplished woman of the law and someone who practices the pro-life values she preaches."

 "Outstanding choice by @realDonaldTrump of Amy Coney Barrett for #SCOTUS. She is superbly qualified and should be swiftly confirmed by the US Senate."

"Excellent choice! So grateful @realDonaldTrump doesn't choose the path of least resistance!"

"Regardless of what you or I may think of the circumstances of this nomination, Barrett is highly qualified to serve on the Supreme Court."

 "At this pivotal point in our nation's history, Judge Barrett is the right person for the job. She is a committed originalist with sterling credentials, a brilliant legal mind, and a steel backbone. Every American should not only support her nomination, but celebrate it."

"The Jewish Coalition for Religious Liberty ('JCRL') and its general counsel Howard Slugh applaud the nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to become an associate justice on the United States Supreme Court."

"Wow. I had high expectations and I was so impressed by how charming and lovely Amy Coney Barrett is in person. She knocked it out of the park!"

"Congratulations to Amy Coney Barrett on her nomination to the Supreme Court! We support her swift confirmation to our nation's highest court."

"President Trump has nominated Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court. Possessing impeccable qualifications, we have confidence she will fairly apply the law and Constitution as written, which includes protecting the most vulnerable in our nation."

"The @NRA fully supports President @realDonaldTrump's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the United States Supreme Court. The Senate should act swiftly to confirm her."

 "The PICK is in and we couldn't be more excited! Amy Coney Barrett will be a judicial role model in the Supreme Court and a pro-life leader for years to come. #justice4life #confirmACB"

"Amy Coney Barrett is a brilliant jurist in the mold of the late Justice Scalia, and President Trump could not have made a stronger selection to fill this Supreme Court vacancy."

"A woman of unparalleled achievement, towering intellect, sterling credentials and unyielding loyalty to the Constitution was just nominated to the Supreme Court."

"President Donald Trump has kept his campaign promise and nominated an outstanding conservative woman for the Supreme Court vacancy created by the passing of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg last week."

"Amy Barrett was my Evidence professor. She's been exceedingly generous with her time & an important mentor to me, as the field of Notre Dame Law alumni-turned-law professors is fairly small. I'm thrilled to see a good & decent person, & a crisp & clear writer, nominated."

 "The same impressive intellect, character and temperament that made Judge Barrett a successful nominee for the U.S. Court of Appeals will serve her and the nation equally well as a Justice of the United States Supreme Court."

"Judge Amy Coney Barrett is an absolutely brilliant legal scholar and jurist. She is also one of the most popular teachers we have ever had here at Notre Dame Law School."

"I am elated that the president chose my friend and colleague as his nominee. She will serve our nation with distinction."

"America's free enterprise system depends on the fair application of the law, and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has no doubt that Judge Barrett will treat all litigants – including the business community – fairly. She will make an excellent associate justice."




"Barrett, 48, appears to be an excellent choice. We hope the Judiciary Committee will provide a platform for her to explain how she approaches constitutional and statutory issues and address any questions or criticisms that senators may have."

"Clearly Judge Amy Coney Barrett is highly qualified as a jurist. She has a wonderful, wonderful personal story, a beautiful family as we all saw."

"ACB. Sharpie - she's a lock. Trump remarks perfect today. ACB remarks were perfect. Family adorable. White House decorated beautifully. A lot of Americans are going to see themselves in ACB and love this nomination."

 "Congratulations to #AmyConeyBarrett for her nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. It is so refreshing to see a successful conservative woman being asked to serve our nation at the highest levels. She is eminently qualified to serve and I look forward to her Senate confirmation."

"Regardless of the politics at play, Barrett is a strong choice, and she deserves a fair hearing in the Senate."

"Watching Judge Amy Coney Barrett just now, I'm proud as a conservative woman to see her accept this nomination with such grace."

"President Trump's nomination today of Amy Coney Barrett – a brilliant scholar, jurist, constitutional textualist, mother of seven, with an unblemished reputation – will cement the conservative leaning of the Supreme Court for decades to come."

"Inspired choice, pitch-perfect event, great introduction to the American public"

"I think she'll be an exquisite Justice in the Supreme Court."

"The man nominates incredible judges. No question about it."

"Well done @realDonaldTrump and congratulations to Judge Barrett who will soon be Justice Barrett."

 "Judge Barrett's comments were pitch- and substantively perfect."

 "Congratulations to Judge Barrett and thank you President Trump for having the courage to nominate her."

"Judge Barrett is an excellent nominee."

 "What a wonderful model for young girls. You can have a big diverse family and also serve on the highest court in the land."