Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning. I'll be your in-town pooler today. The pool was tested for Covid-19 this morning. The only event on Potus's schedule today is the 2pm Rose Garden event, where he will give an update on coronavirus testing. 


Pool was called to gather at the Palm Room doors just before 11am.Pool was led out to the South Lawn, where Potus was inspecting theLordstown Motors 2021 endurance truck, an electric pickup truck. Thecar is silver with bright orange inside the tires.

Peter Navarro, Sen. Portman were present.

"We've been working on this very long and very hard," Potus toldreporters. The truck has a "lot of advantages," he said.

"Lordstown OH got a gut punch" when GM shut down its plant there, Sen.Portman said. "The combination of this company and the battery plantwill mean we've replaced about the same number of workers."

"This didn't happen by accident," Navarro says. After the plantclosed, "The president sprung into action."

More tk. 


The brief event ended at 11:09 a.m. Potus was asked as he left theevent whether he is looking forward to the debate.

"Yeah I am. I am looking very forward to the debate." He didn't answera question about his tax returns.

Will send a few more quotes from the event shortly. 


"We've been working on this very long and very hard," Potus said. "This is a really unique thing because the four wheels are -- hub motor, hub motor -- this is the only one that does this in the world. It has a lot of advantages."

Sen. Portman gave a little more detail: "This is exciting. Lordstown Ohio got a gut-punch when General Motors decided to stop making the Chevy Cruz and pulled out ... 1500 workers lost their jobs right away. ... This was the biggest employer in the Mahoning Valley, which is where Youngstown is ... We're now calling it Voltage Valley, because we not only have this pickup truck being produced at the old General Motors plant, but right next to that plant there's a new LG Chem General Motors joint venture making batteries. They're going to hire 1100 people this year. The combination of this company and the battery plant will mean we replaced about the same number of workers, but with a really interesting future which is bringing even more electric vehicle, electric technology companies. Youngstown State University is playing an active role in this, providing training on electric vehicles technology. This is a rebirth, and it's really exciting, and as you know, the president and thisadministration have been very helpful in this effort to try to bring back the jobs in the Mahoning Valley."

Peter Navarro also spoke for a few minutes. "This didn't happen by accident." When the GM plant shut down, the president and Sen. Portman "sprung into action." "This is a great partnership," he said.

"The area was devastated when General Motors moved out," Potus said. "Beyond the plant, it's incredible what's happened in the area. It's booming now. It's absolutely booming. ... It's an incredible piece of science, technology. It's going to happen now with more and more trucks. And ultimately they say you'll be able to do it for less money, and it's better, which is a good combination."

According to the Lordstown Motors website, the truck is the first all-electric in-wheel drive system, using four hub motors that are 95% efficient. More here: 


>From the White House:

Today, President Donald J. Trump congratulated Lordstown Motors of Lordstown, Ohio on their manufacturing of the 2021 Endurance, the world's first all-electric commercial pickup truck.

In March 2019, General Motors closed their Lordstown, Ohio, Chevy Cruze factory. The President urged Ms. Barra, GM's CEO, to sell the factory to another auto company that would utilize the plant and employ the hundreds of workers that GM unacceptably abandoned. Later that year, GM sold the facility to Lordstown Motors, who will release the 2021 Endurance this fall.



President Donald J. Trump
 Peter Navarro,


Rob Portman, 
 Mike Turner, 


Steve Burns, 
Rich Schmidt,
Michael Fabian, 
 


The White House just called a lunch lid until 2 p.m.

The testing announcement, originally scheduled for 2 p.m., has been pushed back to 3:30. 


Pool gathered at 3:20 p.m. for the Rose Garden event, where Potus is giving an update on coronavirus testing.

Pool spotted HHS Secretary Alex Azar standing to the side of the Rose Garden.

The event is live-streamed on whitehouse.gov/live.

>From the White House:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will give an update on the Nation's Coronavirus Testing Strategy. President Trump and his Administration have galvanized unprecedented testing resources being deployed to defeat the coronavirus and save lives. Through public-private partnership, the Trump Administration is revolutionizing the coronavirus fight by equipping states with live-saving tests that will help ensure their communities are safe while their schools and economies reopen and develop the world's leading testing system.



President Donald J. Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
 Dr. Scott Atlas,
Douglas Hoelscher, 
Brad Smith,
Ja'Ron Smith, 
Quellie Moorhead,


Secretary Alex Azar, 
Secretary Betsy DeVos, 
Administrator Seema Verma, 
Admiral Brett Giroir, 
Rear Admiral Michael Weahkee, 
Dr. Tammy Beckham,


Governor Tate Reeves, 
State Senator Robert Taylor, 
State Representative Dan Huberty, 
Robert Ford, President and Chief Executive Officer,
 


?Potus and the VP came out at 3:43 p.m. Seated in the front row areSeema Verma, Betsy DeVos, and Alex Azar. Scott Atlas, Giroir andothers are in the second row. 


?The event concluded at 4:07 p.m. Potus ignored shouted questions abouthis tax returns.

Couple highlights:

Potus said the federal government would send 150 million Abbott rapidpoint of care tests around the country.

Adm. Brett Giroir demonstrated how the rapid test works.

Gov. Tate Reeves, VP Pence, Scott Atlas also spoke. Pence said theadministration has urged governors to use the tests to help open upschools. He also said Americans should expect the number of cases torise as testing becomes more widely available. 


?Travel/photo lid called at 6:04 p.m.

Have a great evening! 