"I'm not opposed to the Justice."
 Biden and Harris have both publicly opposed Judge Amy Coney Barrett's nomination to the Supreme Court, despite glowing reviews from the legal community and her colleagues.
"There's a hundred million people with preexisting conditions and [their insurance will] be taken away as well."
 Biden's claim has been called "misleading," and President Trump has said he will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions.
"So the thing that should happen is we should wait. We should wait and see what the outcome of this election is, because that is the only way the American people get to express their view, who they elect as president and who they elect as Vice President."
 History is on the side of filling the Supreme Court vacancy now, and Joe Biden previously said the President had an obligation to name a nominee, even in an election year.
"We expand Obamacare and we increase it. We do not wipe any and, one of the big debates we had, with 23 of my colleagues trying to win the nomination that I won, were saying Biden wanted to allow people to have private insurance still. They can. They do. They will."
 Biden's public option will crowd out private health insurance plans.
"He's been promising a health care plan since he got elected. He has none, like almost everything else he talks about. He does not have a plan. He doesn't have a plan."
 President Trump has a health care plan.
"You agreed with Bernie Sanders to the manifesto and now you're disavowing it." 
"There is no manifesto."
There is a manifesto, and Biden's campaign worked with Sanders' associates to write it.
"What did he do? He went in, and he, we were insisting that the Chinese, the people we had on the ground in China should be able to go to Wuhan and determine for themselves how dangerous this was. He didn't even ask [Chinese President] Xi to do that."
: The Trump Administration first tried to get American officials into China in early January; Biden didn't call for sending experts into China until February 25, 50 days later.
"But you and Senator Harris are saying you can't trust a scientist."
 "No, you can trust a scientist. She didn't say that." 
 "She said they would be 'muzzled and suppressed.'" 
"Well, that's what he's going to try and do."
 President Trump has listened to scientists and public health experts every step of the way.
 "But he wants to shut it [the economy] down." 
 "No."
 Biden and his campaign have admitted that he would potentially shut down the economy again.
"The president says it's a V-shaped recovery, you say it's a K-shaped recovery. What's the difference?" 
 "The difference is millionaires and billionaires like him in the middle of the Covid crisis have done very well."
President Trump is leading an unprecedented economic recovery that is benefitting all Americans.
"He's been totally irresponsible the way in which he has handled the social distancing and people wearing mask, basically encouraging them not to."
 President Trump has strongly advocated that Americans wear masks, and he has worn one himself many times.
"[The Trump Administration has] done nothing to help small businesses. Nothing."
 President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program was undeniably successful in keeping Americans employed and small businesses afloat during the pandemic.
 "He pays less tax than a schoolteacher ... This guy paid a total of $750 in taxes.""
 President Trump has paid millions of dollars in taxes in 2016 and 2017.
"The economy is busted."
 Before the coronavirus pandemic, President Trump built the greatest economy in American history, and he is working to bring it back.
We inherited the worst recession short of a depression in American history. I was asked to bring it back. We were able to have an economic recovery that created the jobs you're talking about. We handed him a booming economy."
 Biden oversaw the slowest recovery since the Great Depression, leaving behind millions of hard-working Americans.
"My economic plan would create 7 million more jobs than his in four years"
 Biden's economic plans would destroy jobs and shrink the economy.
"My son did nothing wrong in Burisma."
 Multiple State Department officials expressed alarm about Hunter Biden's financial dealings at the time, concerned over the clear conflict-of-interest.
"[President Trump] said there were very fine people on both sides."
 This is an often-repeated Biden lie; President Trump specifically condemned neo-Nazis and white supremacists in Charlottesville.
 "[Hunter Biden] got $3.5 million dollars." 
: "That is not true."
 The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee recently released a report saying that Hunter Biden's firm did in fact receive $3.5 million from the wife of the Mayor of Moscow.
"Even before COVID, manufacturing went in the hole."
 Half a million manufacturing jobs were created during the first three years of the Trump Administration.
"I think it's a party issue. You can bring in a couple of examples but when you look at Chicago, what's going on in Chicago where 53 people were shot and eight died ... If you look at New York where it's going up like nobody has ever seen anything. Numbers are going up 100, 150, 200% crime." 
 "Republican cities."
 A vast majority of the most violent cities in the U.S. are cities run by Democrats.
"His own former spokesperson said, 'you know riots and chaos and violence help his cause' ... Kellyanne Conway said that."
 Biden misquoted and misconstrued comments from former Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway.
"Look, what I support is the police having the opportunity to deal with the problems they face. I am totally opposed to defunding the police officers."
 As Vice President, Joe Biden oversaw cuts in federal funding for state and local law enforcement, breaking a pledge to increase funding.
"The fact is that I've gone head to head with Putin."
 Biden has a record of being weak on Russia.
"...for cocaine use. And he didn't have a job until you became Vice President." 
None of that is true."
 As was widely reported, in 2014 Hunter Biden was discharged from the military for cocaine use.
"The way you talk about the military, the way you talk about them being losers and being ah- and just being suckers."
At least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article.
"You propose $2 trillion in green jobs, you talk about new limits, not abolishing, but new limits on fracking. Ending the use of fossil fuels to generate electricity by 2035 and zero net emission of greenhouse gases by 2050. The President says a lot of these things would tank the economy and cost millions of jobs." 
"He is absolutely wrong."
 Biden's energy plan would cost trillions of dollars and hundreds of thousands of jobs.
"That is not my plan. The Green New Deal is not my plan."
 Joe Biden has embraced the Green New Deal in all but name.
 "What he did is he said, he called the military 'stupid bastards.'" 
 "That is not true."
 In March 2016, Biden called service members "stupid bastards" during a speech at Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates.
"You don't have to solicit the ballot, it's sent you—it's sent to your home. What we are saying is, they are saying it has to be postmarked by Election Day. If it doesn't get in until the seventh, eighth, ninth, it still should be counted. He's just afraid of counting the votes because of the outcome."
 Biden is wrong that states with mass vote by mail require postmarks; Pennsylvania's Supreme Court explicitly said ballots, even those without postmarks, will be assumed to be valid.
"[Judge Amy Coney Barrett] thinks that the Affordable Care Act is not constitutional."
 Judge Amy Coney Barrett has not expressed a view about the Constitutionality of Obamacare or about the current case pending before the Supreme Court.
"We have a higher deficit with China now than we did before."
The trade deficit with China is falling and "fell sharply" in 2019.
: "The fact of the matter is violent crime went down 17%, 15%, in our administration."
:Fact checkers have said this claim is "overstated," and violent crime rose by more than 4 percent during the last two years Biden was Vice President.