

 Have you made your final decision on your Supreme Court pick?

Well, I'll be announcing it tomorrow, the decision.

 [
]

 And I've made it—in my own mind, yes, I have. And I'll be announcing the decision tomorrow. It's very exciting. Five o'clock at the White House Rose Garden.

 Is it Barrett?

So that decision will be made. It is made in my own mind, but we'll be announcing it tomorrow, 5 o'clock, at the White House.

. Did you wind up meeting with Lagoa? Did you meet with Lagoa?



Is it Amy? Is it Amy Coney Barrett? Everybody says that.

Well, she's outstanding, but I haven't said that. I'll be announcing it tomorrow at 5 o'clock. We are going to make a roundtable now, and then I'm going to Virginia, as you know. We're doing a rally tonight, and then we'll call it a day. I would say that's a pretty good day.



Did you meet with Lagoa while you were in Florida?

Say who?

Did you meet with Lagoa?

No, I did not.

So you have not met with her?

By the way, a very highly thought-of person, I have to say that. But I did not.

So lawmakers—are lawmakers being told that it's Coney Barrett?

[
]

They are?

Is that what they're telling you?

Are they being—are they being told that?

You're going to find out—you're going to find out tomorrow. [
]

Is it her?

You'll find out tomorrow. She's very—look, they are all great. It could be any one of them. It could be, actually, anyone on the list. They're outstanding. But I'll be announcing tomorrow at the White House.

 Did you—[
]?

 So we're going for a roundtable now. We had an exciting day with Hispanics and the African American community. We're going to have a big roundtable now at the hotel, and then we're going—I don't know who's going with me. Is anybody going with me on this—the rally? Steve [Steve A. Holland, Reuters], you want to see another rally. I know that.

Jeff [Jeff Mason, Reuters]. Jeff will be with you tonight.

Say it?

Jeff will be with you tonight.

Okay, good.



Tell me: What is it you like about Amy Coney Barrett?

Well, I haven't said it was her. But she is outstanding. But they're all outstanding. They're all very outstanding people, top of line academically and every way possible.

Did you meet with Barbara Lagoa today?

I did not. No, I did not.

You did not.

No, I did not.

 Okay.

 Have a good time, everybody.



When you promised to appoint pro-life judges, was the goal——

Say it?

When you promised to appoint pro-life Justices, was the goal to overturn 
 v. 
?

No, no. We'll see—you'll be seeing all of that tomorrow. We have not made our intentions felt, but you'll be seeing tomorrow.

Okay? Good. Thank you.

 Did you want——

 And I'll see some of you—some are traveling with me tonight.

Tomorrow.

And I think I speak tonight at 9 o'clock in Virginia. Okay?

 Do you want——

 Thank you.