







."But asked if her religious views should be off-limits if Barrett comes before the committee again, Sen. Mazie Hirono said: 'No.' 'Look, it wasn't her religious views – it's anybody's views that they bring to their decision making... So they keep telling us that none of the things they wrote or said yesterday should infringe on their decision, but how can we be assured that they can be objective? ... Why should we say you get a lifetime appointment so that you can reflect your ideological agenda in your decision making?" (Manu Raju, "Democrats Weigh How To Handle Trump's Potential Supreme Court Pick After Past Flap Over Barrett's Faith," 
, 9/23/20)





 "Trump's top Supreme Court pick comes from a religion that is straight out of the Handmaid's Tale...because of course she fucking does. Fight for your uteruses, ladies, or pick the male you want to sign your rights over to." (Katie Hill, 
, 9/22/20)




 "One of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden's staffers suggested Monday that Orthodox Catholics, Jews, and Muslims should be disqualified from serving on the Supreme Court due to their 'intolerant' views. Biden campaign Deputy Data Director Nikitha Rai criticized Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett's religious views in a Twitter conversation Monday night with Brookings Institute Senior Fellow Shadi Hamid." (Mary Margaret Olohan, "Joe Biden Staffer Suggests Orthodox Catholics, Jews And Muslims Shouldn't Be On Supreme Court," 
, 9/29/20)




"Under the circumstances I'm pretty calm, know while the living version of Aunt Lydia in the Handmaid's Tale gets nominated to the Supreme Court to replace a woman who literally spent her life fighting for gender equity." (Atima Omara, 
, 9/25/20)




"Amy Barrett being Catholic is a good thing; Joe Biden is a Catholic too. Republicans are trying to make it as though the Left is criticizing her Catholicism but it's not true. It's the repressive tenets of the 'People of Praise' sect she belongs to that are genuinely concerning." (Marianne Williamson, 
, 9/27/20)




 "Praise Be, @amyklobuchar Time to fight like hell or Handmaid's Tale will be our reality. Can't wait to hear Amy Coney Barrett questioned on whether she ever had the role of 'Handmaid' in her People of Praise cult where women pledge subservience to men. You bet it's relevant." (Diana Bray, 
, 9/27/20)




 BILL MAHER: "Apparently, the pick is going to be Amy Coney — we're going to be saying the name a lot, because she's a fuckin' nut, religion, I was right about that one too! — Amy Coney Barrett. Catholic. Really Catholic. I mean, really, really Catholic — like speaking in tongues." (HBO's "Real Time With Bill Maher," 9/25/20)






MSNBC's NICOLLE WALLACE: "Something else that MSNBC had up on the screen if you're watching this and not listening on Sirius in your car, I'll share it with you that when Judge Barrett was under scrutiny for her last appointment, information came out about her time and her relationship with the Christian organization called People of Praise. Now, this is some of what we know about that group and some of what was scrutinized last time she was evaluated. Members of the group, People of Praise, swear a lifelong Oath of Loyalty, called a Covenant to one another and are assigned and are held accountable to a personal adviser called the Head for Men, and a Handmaid for women. The group teaches that husbands are the heads of their wives and should take authority over the family. Because of the rush that Donald Trump feels Neal Katyal, because of the way this process is so condense. These sorts of things become part of our coverage, even on the day of a ceremony in the Rose Garden. What do you think the line of questioning will be about that association?" (MSNBC's "MSNBC Live," 9/26/20)





"Amy Coney Barrett's personal faith is entirely unobjectionable and between her and her creator. Her clear intention of imposing her private beliefs, including religious views, on the American public by overturning long-settled precedent should disqualify her from the bench." (Susan Hennessey, 
, 9/22/20)




ABC's SARA HAINES: "These are comments that Amy Coney Barrett has made herself, and I think it's fair game. As Sunny said, people need to be vetted, they need to be explored. I look forward to hearings for answers to things that were alarming to me. It's the intersection of her faith and her ability to adjudicate the law." (ABC's "
" 9/22/20)






 (Joan Walsh, "Amy Coney Barrett's Extremist Religious Beliefs Merit Examination," 
, 9/26/20)

 "It's easy to argue that we should separate Amy Coney Barrett's personal religious views from her professional work. But she doesn't do that, and the Catholic Church demands that its own members carry their faith outside of church and often into their work." (Jill Filipovic, "Democrats Aren't Anti-Catholic Bigots for Questioning Amy Coney Barrett," 
, 9/28/20)

(Massimo Faggioli, "Why Amy Coney Barrett's Religious Beliefs Aren't Off Limits," 
, 9/24/20)



 SEN. DIANNE FEINSTEIN: "When you read your speeches, the conclusion one draws is that the dogma lives loudly within you, and that's of concern when you come to big issues that large numbers of people have fought for years in this country." (Committee On The Judiciary, U.S. Senate, 
, 9/6/17)






 SEN. DICK DURBIN: "Do you consider yourself an orthodox Catholic?" (Committee On The Judiciary, U.S. Senate, 
, 9/6/17)






SEN. MAZIE HIRONO: "In spite of the fact that you had written in an earlier article that Catholic judges—and you would be a Catholic judge—you would not recuse yourself from death-penalty cases?" (Committee On The Judiciary, U.S. Senate, 
, 9/6/17)






 "Barrett believes that judges should be able to put their religious views above their judicial oath to follow the law, the Constitution, and precedents of the Supreme Court and the Courts of Appeal. It's a pretty unheard of idea in the American judiciary." ("5 Reasons You Should Oppose Amy Coney Barrett," 
, 8/10/17)

 "Her belief that judges should be bound by their religious faith, not the law, combined with her repeated statements rejecting stare decisis, the doctrine that requires courts to follow precedent, clearly threatens precedents such as 
 that form a basis for enforcing women's reproductive rights." (NARAL, 
, 9/16/17)








In late 2018, while evaluating the nomination of Brian Buescher to serve as a district judge in Nebraska, Harris posed a series of questions insinuating that his involvement in the Knights of Columbus — a charitable Catholic fraternal organization — disqualified him from serving on the bench. Here's one of her written questions: Since 1993, you have been a member of the Knights of Columbus, an all-male society comprised primarily of Catholic men. In 2016, Carl Anderson, leader of the Knights of Columbus, described abortion as 'a legal regime that has resulted in more than 40 million deaths.' Mr. Anderson went on to say that 'abortion is the killing of the innocent on a massive scale.' Were you aware that the Knights of Columbus opposed a woman's right to choose when you joined the organization. She went on to ask Buescher whether he was 'aware that the Knights of Columbus opposed marriage equality when [he] joined the organization' and whether he had 'never, in any way, assisted with or contributed to advocacy against women's reproductive rights.'" (Alexander Desanctis, "Kamala Harris's Anti-Catholic Bigotry," 
, 8/11/20)

(Michael Gerson, Column, "Kamala Harris Exacerbates Biden's Existing Problem With Religious Voters. He Must Work To Reassure Them.," 
, 8/13/20)




(
, 12/5/18)

"While I oppose the nomination of Brian Buescher to the U.S. District Court in Nebraska, I stand strongly against those who are fomenting religious bigotry, citing as disqualifiers Buescher's Catholicism and his affiliation with the Knights of Columbus. If Buescher is 'unqualified' because of his Catholicism and affiliation with the Knights of Columbus, then President John F. Kennedy, and the 'liberal lion of the Senate' Ted Kennedy would have been "unqualified" for the same reasons. Article 6 of the U.S. Constitution clearly states that there "shall be no religious test" for any seeking to serve in public office." (Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, Op-Ed, "Elected Leaders Who Weaponize Religion Are Playing A Dangerous Game," 
, 1/8/19)

"On the Senate floor yesterday evening, Senator Ben Sasse (R., Neb.) led an effort to reaffirm the constitutional clause forbidding the use of religious tests for public officeholders. The resolution was agreed to by unanimous consent. The effort was prompted by recent questioning of a Catholic judicial nominee, Brian Buescher, over his membership in the Knights of Columbus. Democratic senators Mazie Hirono (Hawaii) and Kamala Harris (Calif.) asked Buescher whether his Catholic faith would prevent him from serving as an impartial judge, and Hirono went so far as to demand that he drop his membership in the Knights and recuse himself from any case on which the group has taken a position." (Alexandra Desanctis, "Senate Votes Unanimously To Rebuke Anti-Catholic Tests," 
, 1/17/19)