Pool Reports by 
, 




?Dr. Sean Conley, Physician to the President, will provide an update on the President's condition at Walter Reed, per Judd Deere.

Good morning from the White House. Pool has been tested for Covid and has gathered for trip to Walter Reed. 


?Pool took vans over to Walter Reed, arriving at 10:31 a.m. We are attempting to learn the logistics of Dr. Conley's update on POTUS's health, scheduled for 11:00 a.m., and will advise soonest. A podium appears to be set up outside of the main tall building at Walter Reed. 


?Pool is setting up outside the main entrance of Walter Reed for Dr. Conley's remarks, scheduled for 11:00 a.m., and advises all interested to turn to your favorite cable/net channels for coverage.
Pool is advised video will be available after the event at 
 


?A masked Mark Meadows just let pool know it would be about 10 more minutes until Dr. Conley would give his update, that doctors were seeing the president now.

Also pool is advised the event will be live-streamed at whitehouse.gov/live 


?Dr. Conley emerged from the double-brass doors of Walter Reed medical center at 11:39 a.m.

Event is being carried live in several places so please tune in for fastest information. 


?Providers and clinicians appearing: (not a complete list)

CDR Sean Conley, MD
COL Sean N. Dooley, MD
CAPT John Hodgson, MD
CDR Wesley R. Campbell, MD
LTC Jason M. Blaylock, MD
Robert Browning, MD
Brian Garibaldi, MD
LT Juliana Lavopa, RN
CDR Megan Nasworthy, RN

Also WH Chief of Staff Meadows sat on a bench nearby. 


?Pooler passes along these comments on background from a source familiar with the president's health.

"The president's vitals over the last 24 hours were very concerning and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care. We're still not on a clear path to a full recovery." 


Pool arrived back at WH at 12:42 p.m. It's unclear what the rest of the afternoon will look like. 


A lunch lid was called until 3:00 p.m. 


?A travel/photo lid was called at 2:43 p.m. Stay safe out there! 