We are deeply grateful to scientists working around the clock to deliver a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine as soon as possible. Their work has the potential to save countless lives.

President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence see a COVID-19 vaccine as a political tool. We see it as a product of science and research. Its timing, approval, and distribution should be without regard to political calculation.

In the last seven months, Trump has abdicated his duty and failed to lead on every significant aspect of the COVID-19 response — making promises he's never kept, giving preferences to political allies, and threatening to punish political enemies. We cannot allow a repeat of Trump's testing and personal protective equipment (PPE) fiascos when it comes to a COVID-19 vaccine. The stakes are too high for working families across the country.

That is why, over a month ago, Vice President Biden called on President Trump to follow scientific independence, transparency, and accountability in the development of a COVID-19 vaccine.

 Given his track record, no one can take Trump's word alone on a COVID-19 vaccine. But with satisfactory answers to the following questions, every American — including us and our families — can have confidence in a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine.

 In June, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) laid out the criteria under which it will, if appropriate, issue an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for a COVID-19 vaccine. As Election Day has approached, FDA Commissioner Dr. Stephen Hahn has made conflicting comments regarding the standards the Trump Administration will follow. There must be no confusion on this matter. 
 These non-partisan officials — not political appointees — should be given the opportunity to present their analysis publicly and transparently. The American people need confidence in the vaccine to ensure adoption.

 There have been multiple egregious examples of President Trump exerting political pressure on the FDA and undermining public confidence in COVID-19 treatments. The FDA's leadership appears to have bent to White House pressure to issue an emergency authorization for hydroxychloroquine — which it had to withdraw. Dr. Hahn himself contributed to this distrust a few weeks ago by overstating the results for convalescent plasma to treat COVID-19. The Administration must ensure that no decision is finalized unless and until the following people have indicated that such an action is warranted. Specifically, we want to see and hear:

 The decision to clear a vaccine means little if Americans cannot get a vaccination on a timely basis. The distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine will be a major endeavor, requiring seamless coordination among many officials — a logistical and implementation challenge of the highest order. Given the Trump Administration's track record on testing and PPE, we have deep cause for concern about its ability to see this mission through to success. 
 And, the Administration needs to ensure there are robust data systems in place to track vaccine administration and to monitor post-marketing safety data.