: "[Trump] keeps saying he wants a, a uh ... you know, an infrastructure plan. He said he wanted one in, you know, in 2016, '17, '18, '19, now. He hasn't introduced a thing."
President Trump released an infrastructure plan more than two years ago, and has repeatedly called on Congress to invest trillions in our infrastructure and included proposals in his budget to do just that.
"You had thousands of employees making an hourly wage having to sign non-compete agreements. So if you worked at Burger King, you have to sign a noncompete agreement, you would not go across town to McDonalds to try to get 5 more cents in your hourly wage."
Biden's claim that fast food restaurants have forced workers to sign noncompete agreements – a claim he has made before – is false.
: "...calling those who have served, risked their lives, even gave their lives to our nation losers and suckers ... "
: At least 13 officials who were with President Trump in France have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:
Additionally, 
reporting has been refuted by a White House email and Navy documents that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne American cemetery in 2018.
: "And Trump has a plan to gut Social Security. If his social security plan, he actually puts forward, it actually became law, the Social Security Actuary has said the entire Social Security system will be bankrupt by mid-2023."
: Fact-checkers have ruled there is no such "plan." President Trump's payroll tax deferral does not defund social security, and this attack by Biden and his allies has been debunked.
: "I'll keep workers safe, use the full Defense Protection [sic] Act to get every worker, jobsite, school in our country the PPE and testing they need. I argued, I was one of the first ones to argue that he invoke the Act. He took so long..."
: Fact checkers have pointed out that Biden was not "one of the first" to argue for using the Defense Production Act; in fact, Biden did not call for using the DPA until after President Trump had already invoked it.
: "I get asked the question 'if the President announced tomorrow we have a vaccine, would you take it?' Only if it was completely transparent, that other experts in the country could look at it. Only if we knew all of what went into it. Because so far, nothing he has told us has been true."
Biden is echoing the sentiments of anti-vaxxers who are calling into question the safety of the vaccine; our nation's public health officials have said the vaccine will be safe when approved.