Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House.

Press secretary Kayleigh McEnany did not respond to questions – including whether POTUS will hold a briefing today – after her TV hit on Fox News. She said she would see reporters at her noon briefing.

While pool was waiting for McEnany's TV hit, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin walked by – on his way from the West Wing/Eisenhower Executive Office Building area back to Treasury. He agreed to a quick walk and talk with your pooler.

He said he last spoke to Speaker Nancy Pelosi last week and that he spoke to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby on Tuesday.

He said Senator Shelby and the senator's staff are having meetings on the CR to "get a clean CR and things are moving forward productively so that's really the focus at the moment."

More Mnuchin: "The focus for the moment is two things - one, making sure we get the CR done - those are where I'm having discussions with Pelosi – and obviously working with the Senate on what we'd like to call the targeted bill."

Asked what are the chances of another COVID relief bill this year: "I don't know. We'll see. I hope there is. It's important to a lot of people out there."

There are no public events on the president's schedule today. Pooler will inform you if anything changes. 


Kayleigh McEnany's press briefing will now begin at 12:15 pm per overhead announcement from press office. 


Kayleigh McEnany's briefing is now at 12:30 pm per an overhead announcement in press room. 


At 12:53 pm the two minute warning was given for Kayleigh McEnany briefing 


Kayleigh McEnany entered the press briefing room at 1:01 pm

Since the briefing airs live and online in many places, pooler will not be sending quotes. 


Kayleigh McEnany's briefing ended at 1:27 pm. 


>From Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Sultan Haitham Bin Tariq Al Said of Oman. President Trump congratulated Sultan Haitham on the success of the first eight months of his rule. President Trump highlighted the importance of the United States-brokered Abraham Accords announced on August 13th and thanked the Sultan for Oman's comments in support of the Israel-United Arab Emirates deal. The two leaders also discussed ways to enhance regional security and strengthen the United States-Oman bilateral economic partnership. 


In case you didn't see the updated White House schedule for today:

 THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on judicial appointments

Diplomatic Reception Room

Restricted In-House Pool 


Pool is holding in the diplomatic room for POTUS remarks, which were moved to 3:30 pm.

Event will be broadcast on the White House livestream so pooler will only send appropriate color.



A podium with the presidential seal is set up with an American flag and the flag with the presidential seal behind said podium. Podium is set up in front of the fireplace with a George Washington portrait hanging above said fireplace. 


POTUS entered diplomatic room at 3:45 pm

Mark Meadows, Kayleigh McEnany and Dan Scavino standing at door

Remarks being broadcast here:
 


POTUS completed remarks and taking questions at 3:59 pm.

Pool has asked for the list of names of judicial nominees 


At 5:30 pm the White House called a travel photo lid

Have a great evening everyone. 