





 "As part of South Florida's Ecosystem Restoration, Trump's 2021 budget proposes $250 million in annual funding to expedite and construct new Everglades infrastructure. These restoration projects include revitalizing the Everglades, enhancing regional water storage capacity, reducing harmful discharges from Lake Okeechobee and addressing the problems of blue-green algae and red tide." (Kaitlyn Burman, "President Trump To Be In Jupiter Tuesday," 
, 9/5/20)

 "Nearly nine months ago President Donald Trump told TCPalm more money for Everglades restoration, including a reservoir project to help stop harmful Lake Okeechobee discharges, would be coming 'soon.' The president signed the $1.4 trillion federal budget appropriating that money late Friday night. Back on March 31, beside Lake O in western Palm Beach County, Trump said the money would be 'a lot more than you would ever believe.' It is, in fact, the $200 million the Army Corps of Engineers needs in the current fiscal year, and for the next several years, to get the 10,100-acre reservoir built in eight years." (Tyler Treadway, "Trump Signs Budget With $200 Million For Everglades Projects, Reservoir To Cut Discharges," 
 12/21/19)

"My Administration will be fighting for $200 million for the Army Corps Everglades restoration work this year. Congress needs to help us complete the world's largest intergovernmental watershed restoration project ASAP! Good for Florida and good for the environment." (Donald J. Trump, 
, 5/13/19)






 (Fact Sheet, "President Donald J. Trump Is Promoting A Clean And Healthy Environment For All Americans," 
, 7/8/19)



 "The Trump Administration announced Wednesday the awarding of a contract to allow for the second and final phase of the Tamiami Trail Next Steps Project to begin. Officials said that the Florida Department of Transportation awarded the contract to General Asphalt Jones Benitez Joint Venture. Here is what officials said about the project: 'The $200 million Tamiami Trail Next Steps Project represents a new approach to collaboration between federal and state agencies by merging funding and expertise to achieve important regional transportation, sustainability, and Everglades restoration goals all in one project' 'Phase 2 of the project will focus on raising and reconstructing the remaining 6.7 miles of the eastern Tamiami Trail with features to further improve water conveyance, roadway safety, and stormwater treatment. Construction on Phase 2 is scheduled to begin in November 2020.' 'The granting of this award is an exciting milestone in the completion of such a critical project for Everglades restoration,' said Margaret Everson, Counselor to the Secretary, exercising the delegated authority of the National Park Service Director. "'his step is a wonderful example of how collaboration and coordination with our partners sets the stage for long-term restoration efforts.'" ("Trump Administration, Florida Advance Final Phase Of Everglades Restoration Project," 
, 9/2/20)



"President Donald Trump on Tuesday signed a wide-ranging bill to improve the nation's water infrastructure, including a Florida project intended to reduce toxic algae blooms that have devastated coastal marine life and emptied beaches." (Matthew Daly, "Trump Signs Water Projects Bill; 1 Aimed At Fla. Toxic Algae," 
, 10/23/18)



"'The Trump administration takes the environmental harms caused by algae blooms to the Everglades very seriously, which is why we're working closely with Florida and other states that are consistently impacted by these blooms,' Chase Jennings, press secretary for the Office of Management and Budget, said in a statement. 'President Trump is committed to the strict standards and funding surrounding algae blooms in order to provide clean, untainted water to all Americans.'" (David Smiley, "Trump's 2021 Budget Proposes $250 Million For Everglades Restoration Projects," 
, 2/6/20)

 "A bill that expands federal funding opportunities for communities affected by harmful algal blooms is now law. President Donald Trump signed the measure Monday, which the House passed Dec. 20 and the Senate passed Dec. 18. The bill authorizes the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency to declare a 'Harmful Algal Bloom of Significance' when a bloom will have a detrimental impact on a state's environment, economy, subsistence use or public health. The declaration authorizes the federal government to make federal funding available to state or local governments to assess and mitigate harmful algal blooms." (Ali Schmitz, "President Trump Signs Algal Bloom Bill To Fund Research, Monitoring, Mitigation," 
, 1/10/19)



"'President Trump understands that restoring Florida's Everglades is critical to the economic growth and well-being of our state,' said Governor DeSantis. 'This $250 million in federal funding, combined with more than $300 million of state funding for the Everglades in my recommended budget, will help us achieve our long-term environmental goals. The ball is now in Congress's court to grant the President's request so we can continue our efforts of restoring one of America's most prized natural resources.'" (Press Release, "Governor Ron DeSantis Commends President Donald Trump For Historic Everglades Restoration Funding Request," 
, 2/10/20)

 SENATOR MARCO RUBIO (R-FL): "Well, we just want to thank you. This is a — the most important issue in Florida is water right now. And it's actually the algae blooms and all that that are destroying property values and economically threaten communities, where people come to have access to the water, and they can't go in the water for three or four months a year because of the algae blooms. This actually is related to that. And your administration deserves credit. You helped pull forward money — used disaster relief money to finish this, which meant that now that money gets freed up for the rest of the Everglades. And you have a chance, Mr. President, and your administration, to go down in history as the Everglades President — as the person who helped save and restore the Everglades. And we're going to be very proud to be a part of that." ("Remarks By President Trump During A Visit To Lake Okeechobee And Herbert Hoover Dike," 
, 3/29/19)






 SENATOR RICK SCOTT (R-FL): "I applaud President Trump for working with the Florida delegation to commit to fight for $250 million in federal funding for Everglades restoration projects this year. This funding builds on the $200 million in construction funding for the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration we fought for and secured last year, as well as the $2 billion in state funding invested in restoring the Everglades throughout my time as Governor. Everglades restoration is critically important to the State of Florida and enjoys broad bipartisan support in Congress. I applaud the Administration's commitment to protecting Florida's natural treasures for generations to come." (Press Release, "Sen. Rick Scott Applauds President Trump's Commitment To Protecting Everglades," 
, 2/10/20)

 REPRESENATIVE FRANCIS ROONEY (R-FL): "Mr. President, I just want to thank you for this and for a lot of other things you've done to show when a businessperson gets involved in government, good things can happen. And you are going to save the Everglades. We're doing as much in three years, because of you, than we've done in the preceding 13 years. So thank you, Mr. President." ("Remarks By President Trump During A Visit To Lake Okeechobee And Herbert Hoover Dike," 
, 3/29/19)






. REPRESENTATIVE MARIO DIAZ-BALART (R-FL): "Mr. President, just to reiterate that you have the mayor of Clewiston here. You have state officials. You have federal officials. But it doesn't happen without your leadership. It doesn't happen without you stepping forward, saying that this is important; putting, in essence, your effort, your leadership. And all of us are here working together, but in particular to thank you because it would not have happened. And what Francis says is right: You have done more for the environment, for Lake Okeechobee — in essence, for Everglades restoration — in your two years than we have seen in decades. So thank you, Mr. President." ("Remarks By President Trump During A Visit To Lake Okeechobee And Herbert Hoover Dike," 
, 3/29/19)



