Pool Reports by 
, 




Hello everyone. We're rolling away from the White House at 11:21 and we're motorcading to JBA. We spotted POTUS in the backseat of the presidential limo. (In case you're wondering, the press office says he's been driving to JBA because of construction on the South Lawn.)

POTUS is flying to Florida to give a speech in Jupiter, and then to North Carolina for a campaign event in Winston-Salem.

There are no pooled events on the schedule at this point, just public remarks. 


We rolled up to the plane at JBA at 11:45. We're on the smaller jet today.

Trump gaggled on the tarmac. He started by saying the job numbers are great and a vaccine is coming. Then he took a couple questions.

Trump said he's considering spending money on his own campaign.

"If I have to, I will."

"Whatever it takes, we have to win."

"Joe doesn't have the strength, he doesn't have the mental capability."

We spotted Stephen Miller, Robert O'Brien, Lindsey Graham, Mark Meadows.

No cell service on small plane, will send fuller remarks when possible.

We'll be wheels up for Palm Beach International shortly. 


We landed at Palm Beach International at 1:59. POTUS walked down the steps at 2:09. Half the sky is bright blue, the other half is ominous dark gray clouds.

Ron DeSantis, wearing a mask, was at the bottom of the stairs to greet POTUS.

After getting off the plane, we noticed McEntee, Kushner, Scavino and Jason Miller were on board as well.

We're rolling to the event in Jupiter at 2:12. It's about 30 minute drive.

POTUS came back to talk off the record for about six minutes.

Here's some extended quotes from POTUS at JBA before boarding the flight. Thanks to Tina Nguyen for the transcription assistance.

"We're going to Florida, we're going to North Carolina, we're doing a double stop, we'll be doing some triples along the way but right now we're sort of in the earlier stages. The poll numbers you saw were very good, they were really getting good despite all of the disinformation campaigns that the Democrats run. Pure disinformation. So we're doing very well, and we'll have a good trip today and I'll see you during the trip."

"Whether it's ventilators or whether its vaccines, which we will see very soon, or therapeutics, we've done a great job. But the press was fake, and we have to spend a lot of money."

"We have much more money than we had last time, going into the last two months. I think double or triple. But if we needed any more, I would put it up personally like I did in the primaries last time. In the 2016 primaries, I put up a lot of money. If I have to, I'll do it here. But we don't have to, because we have double and maybe even triple than what we had a number of years ago, 4 years ago."

Q: How much are you talking about putting into your campaign now?

"Whatever it takes, we have to win. This is the most important election in the history of our country. We have a radical left group going around. These people, there's something wrong with them, there really is, there's something wrong with them. And Joe doesn't have the strength, he doesn't have the mental capability to control these people."

"I don't think the Democrats have the courage to control these people. They're afraid to even talk about law and order, they can't even say the words law and order. All we want is law and order."

"The suburbs are coming big to us, because the suburbs are next. If you elected this guy, the suburbs would be overwhelmed with violence and crime. So that's where we are. This is the most important election in the history of our country. So that's it. We'll see you in Florida." 


We're still en route to Jupiter. From the press office, here's who was waiting for POTUS when he got off the plane. They were all wearing masks and he spoke with them from at least a few feet away.

Governor Ron DeSantis
Governor of Florida

Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nuñez
Lieutenant Governor of Florida

Attorney General Ashley Moody
Attorney General of Florida

Jimmy Patronis
Chief Financial Officer of Florida

State Representative Chris Sprowls
State Representative from Florida's 65th House District and Incoming Florida Speaker of the House 


It was a smooth ride to the event. A lot of people waved American flags, and some Trump flags too. I spotted one sign that said "I vape & I vote." There were a handful of boats with flags as we crossed the Loxahatchee River.

A couple blocks from the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum, there were dense crowds on both sides of the road, most with flags supporting POTUS. There were a few signs supporting Laura Loomer for Congress too.

We arrived at the event at 2:49. The remarks will be broadcast. Right now the speakers are blasting the Doors at high volume. 


POTUS took the stage at 3. He called Florida his "home state." Below are some details from the press office. There are about 200 people sitting on folding chairs, few wearing masks and no social distancing.

Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit Jupiter, Florida, to discuss his Administration's continued conservation and environmental protection efforts in the region.



Secretary David Bernhardt, 
Administrator Andrew Wheeler,


Congressman Gus Bilirakis, 
Congressman Ted Yoho, 
Congressman Neal Dunn, 
Congressman Matt Gaetz, 
Congressman Brian Mast, 
Congressman Greg Steube, 
Congressman Mike Waltz,


Governor Ron DeSantis, 
Lieutenant Governor Jeanette Nuñez,
Attorney General Ashley Moody, 
Jimmy Patronis,
State Representative Chris Sprowls, 
 


POTUS finished speaking at 3:21 and sat down at a desk to sign his environmental order. The crowd shouted "four more years" and the speakers started blasting "YMCA."

When POTUS left the stage, DeSantis walked up to the desk and started tossing sharpie markers into the crowd.

We're back in the vans at 3:27 and waiting to roll out. 


We pulled up to AF1 at 4:15 and POTUS boarded.

We'll be heading to North Carolina shortly. FYI, we're running about 30 min ahead of schedule right now. 


AF1 flew a circuitous route over Atlanta to get us back on schedule. We landed in Winston-Salem at 6:34 and the plane taxied in front of a crowd of supporters.

We're hopping on shuttles to get ferried over to the rally, which is here at the airport. It appears POTUS is going to make his entrance via presidential limo. 


POTUS stepped to the podium at 6:54.

FYI, he didn't actually get into the limo, he walked from the plane as the limo drove up nearby. 


POTUS finished talking at 8:10.

We're heading back to the plane to return to JBA. 


We landed at JBA at 9:15.

A senior administration official came to the back of the plane to talk with the traveling press. The official said to expect an announcement tomorrow on further troop withdrawals from Iraq, and another announcement in the coming days about Afghanistan.

We're motorcading back to the White House, so expect a final note from there. 


POTUS came down the stairs at 9:25. We're rolling from JBA to the White House. 


We arrived back at the White House at 9:51.

We did not see POTUS exit his vehicle.

That's a wrap for tonight. Thanks to Tina Nguyen for the pooling assistance. 