

: "The President reportedly said, and I emphasize reportedly said, that those who sign up to serve, instead of doing something more lucrative are 'suckers.'"

: At least 10 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:

Additionally, 
reporting has been refuted by 
 and 
 that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne American cemetery in 2018.

: "The August jobs report came out this morning ... The pace of the jobs gains in August was slower than July, significantly slower than in May and June."

The number of jobs added back in August was the fourth largest one-month gain on record.

: "And after six months in the pandemic, we're less than halfway back to where we were, with one, 11 million, 11.5 million Americans not getting their jobs back."

The economic comeback is occurring at an historic pace, and Biden's "recovery" took nearly seven times as long as the current comeback to add back a similar percentage of jobs lost.

"In the meantime, Trump and his friends have strong views about what the rest of America should do: ... Defund Social Security ..."

President Trump's payroll tax deferral does not defund social security, and this attack by Biden and 
 has been 
.

"Attorney General William Barr saying on CNN this week, he said that his assessment right now is that China poses the most aggressive threat to U.S. elections..." 
"He is a lousy enough Attorney General but he is a really bad intelligence officer."

: Biden is denying the assessments of our nation's national security and intelligence officials, who say China poses the largest threat.

: "[Kamala Harris has] been on the road, she's out herself."

: Harris is not on the road campaigning, but spent yesterday in a virtual, big-dollar fundraiser, with 
.

Violence isn't a problem in Trump's eyes, it's a political strategy — and the more of it, the better, as his press secretary had said."

 These comments – which Biden made at an afternoon fundraiser –misquoted and misconstrued comments from Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, not White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany.
