Pool Reports by 
, 




??Good Morning from the White House...

The Minister of Foreign Affairs for Bahrain and delegation arrived at 10:38am.

POTUS gave a thumbs up to reporters. Asked about the day, said he felt "fantastic" before going back into West Wing without taking more questions.

Uniformed U.S. Service members were lined up along the driveway on both sides, each carrying a state flag (photo attached)

Will keep you posted if any of the bilats on today's schedule open up. Pool was tested earlier this morning. 


???Pool called to gather. More TK.

Pool will not be able to report from UAE and Israel delegation arrivals as we hold. 


?Pool entered Oval Office at 11:27am

Escorted out at 11:37am

POTUS welcomed the foreign minister of UAE.

"Your country is a great country"

Also on hand , VP Pence, Pompeo, Mnuchin, Jared Kushner, Mark Meadows

POTUS: "you can say it's a backdoor, but i call it a smart door."

UAE Foreign Minister: "This is just a clear message that more should be done between the united states and the UAE"

Asked what message the accords send to Palestinians, POTUS replies:
"I think they see what's happening..."
said he stopped payment to Palestinians
"I think we'll see the Palestinians at some point"
"You're going to have peace without blood in the sand."

Asked about Iran
"we'll see what happens with Iran"
Predicted that after election we'll see "Iran coming back" looking to make a new deal with US.

Asked about other countries normalizing relations with Israel:
POTUS said others will join but does not provide more. 


?Holding for bilat with Israeli PM Netanyahu

Also passing along details from UAE arrival at the West Wing provided by Hamodia reporter Reuvain Borchardt.

"At 11:19 Trump greeted the UAE foreign minister in front of the west wing. Neither one wore masks but they did not shake hands. They did not make comments, and reportera did not shout questions

Feel free to pass along

Reuvain Borchardt 


??Pool entered Oval Office 12:05/ Leaves 12:15

POTUS presented Netanyahu with a Gold Key. Said it was the "key to the White House"

Netanyahu: "You have a key to the hearts of the Jewish people"

POTUS on UAE: "they very much wanted to do this."

"We have many nations ready to follow."

Reporter: Can you name them? POTUS says not now. "we're very far down the road with 5 additional countries."

Q: Will you promote f-35 deal even if Israel objects
POTUS: "we'll work that out"

Q: Does israel feel isolated
POTUS: "I think Israel is not isolated anymore"

Netanyahu: "Heck no." Touts relationship with U.S. Says Tehran feels pressure.

POTUS on Iran: "I really believe Iran wants to make a deal"

"I want Iran to be a great country."

Repeats his claim that Iran, China, Russia want Biden to win.Asked if he will negotiate a deal with Palestinians:
"They've come a long way"
"The palestinians will absolutely be a member...at the right time"
"We are talking to the Palestinians"

"Even Bibi gets tired of war," Potus says as Netanyahu laughs

*****
From ARRIVAL via Reuvain Borchardt, Hamodia

11:54 am
Trump and First Lady greeted Netanyahu and his wife Sara. They chatted briefly and posed for media.Once again, no masks, no handshakes, no public statements. No shouted questions from media 


???Greetings from the South Lawn where about 200 attendees are on hand. (Seeking count from press office.)

A mixed bag in terms of masks— some attendees wearing, some not.

POTUS and Netanyahu emerged from Oval Office at 12:45pm. They joined foreign ministers from UAE and Bahrain on colonnade before walking inside to Blue Room.

The leaders appeared on the Blue Room balcony at 12:54pm, arriving to cheers, whistles and applause.

Event will be livestreamed at: whitehouse.gov/live 


>From WH's Judd Deere:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in the signing ceremony of the Abraham Accords, a historic agreement that is a culmination of President Trump's strong leadership and the vision of the leaders of the United Arab Emirates, the Kingdom of Bahrain, and the State of Israel. These agreements mark a major step toward peace in the region and a more vibrant future filled with endless possibilities.


President Donald J. Trump
First Lady Melania Trump
Vice President Mike Pence
 Mark Meadows, 
Robert O'Brien,
Jared Kushner, 
Avi Berkowitz,
Kayleigh McEnany, 
Dan Scavino,
Robert Greenway,


Secretary Mike Pompeo,
Secretary Steven Mnuchin, 
Secretary Mike Pompeo, 
Secretary Steven Mnuchin, 
Secretary Mark Esper, 
Attorney General Bill Barr,
Secretary David Bernahrdt,
Secretary Sonny Perdue,
Secretary Wilbur Ross, 
Secretary Gene Scalia,
Secretary Ben Carson,
Secretary Elaine Chao, 
Secretary Dan Brouillette,
Secretary Betsy DeVos, 
Secretary Robert Wilkie, 
Acting Secretary Chad Wolf,
Administrator Andrew Wheeler,
Director Russell Vought, 
Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, 
Administrator Jovita Carranza,
Director John Ratcliffe,
Ambassador David Friedman, 
Ambassador John Rakolta Jr., 
Brian Hook,
Major General Miguel Correa,


Lindsey Graham, 
Ted Cruz, 
Thom Tillis, 
John Boozman,
Mike Braun,
Tom Cotton, 
Steve Daines,
Chuck Grassley,
John Hoeven,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, 
James Lankford,
Mike Lee,
Kelly Loeffler,
Jerry Moran,
Jim Risch, 
Todd Young,
Mitt Romney,
House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy,
Matt Gaetz,
Michael Waltz,
Xochitl Torres Small,
Chris Stewart, 
Abigail Spanberger,
Chris Smith, 
 Jim Sensenbrenner, 
Brad Schneider,
Austin Scott,
Steve Scalise,
Scott Perry,
Greg Pence, 
Devin Nunes, 
Donald Norcross,
Stephanie Murphy,
Mike McCaul, 
Brian Mast, 
Elaine Luria,
Doug Lamborn, 
David Kustoff, 
Adam Kinzinger,
French Hill, 
Mike Guest,
Sam Graves,
Kay Granger, 
Josh Gottheimer, 
Vicente Gonzalez,
Virginia Foxx,
Eliot Engel,
Ted Deutch, 
Scott DesJarlais,
John Curtis, 
Paul Cook,
Bradley Byrne, 
Tim Burchett, 
Anthony Brindisi,
Jack Bergman,
Jim Banks, 
Don Bacon, 
Robert Aderholt,
Liz Cheney, 


His Excellency Benjamin NETANYAHU,
His Highness Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,
His Excellency Dr. Abdullatif bin Rashid AL-ZAYANI,
His Excellency Ron DERMER,
Meir BEN SHABBAT, 
His Excellency Obaid Bin Humaid Al Tayer,
Her Excellency Reem Bin Ebrahim Al Hashimy,
His Excellency Sultan Bin Ahmad Al Jaber,
His Excellency Abdula Bin Touq Al Mari, 
His Excellency Yousef Al Otaiba,
His Excellency Ali Saeed Matar Al Neyadi, 
His Excellency Shaikh Abdulla Bin Rashed ALKHALIFA,
His Excellency Shaikh Abdulla Bin Ahmed ALKHALIFA,
Her Excellency Huda Ezra Ebrahim NONOO, 
Sara NETANYAHU,


Governor Ron DeSantis, 
Additional State & Local Officials 


>From WH's Judd Deere...

Today's signing will take place at The Lee Dining Room Table from Blair House.

President Truman held weekly luncheon meetings with his cabinet at this dining room table. Discussions at this table helped to chart the progress of American diplomacy - fundamentals embodied in the Marshall Plan and Truman Doctrine were discussed at this table. The legacy of high-level meetings continues, as this table is now in the Lee Dining Room of the Blair House, the President's Guest House - where visits are exclusively reserved for meetings presided over by the guest chief of state or head of government. It has also served new and former First Families when they stay at Blair House for inaugurations and state funerals.

The chairs for the signing are from the current Cabinet Room in the White House. 


POTUS and leaders walked away from signing table at 1:38pm. 


Pool called to Palm Room Doors. More TK
Laura Figueroa 


Pool escorted into State Dining Room at 1:57p and escorted out a minute later. No questions.

Netanyahu seated across from Trump, joked that he wasn't sure he wanted to be seated with press behind his back.

POTUS on signing accords: "Its something we should all be proud of." 


enjoy your lunch! 


? Pool gathered on the South Lawn as of 3:17pm, awaiting Marine One and POTUS' departure 


??POTUS left Oval Office at 3:40pm, walked side by side with Press Sec. Kayleigh McEnany.

Took some questions. As always please check transcript for full quotes as it was hard to hear over chopper.

Q:What are u doing to reach out to suburban voters?
Touted "law and order" and ending Obama era AFFH housing rules.
Said he is running a "very powerful law and order campaign."
Ticked off list of police union endorsements.

Asked about his claims yesterday on climate change and if he believes in climate change, said he's a "big believer" in the claims he made yesterday.

Asked about World Trade Organization on China Tariffs.
Said will have to examine issue. "Not a big fan" of WTO

Asked about Tik Tok
Said he'll take a look at deal and he's a fan of Larry Ellison

On Mattis
He didn't do the ISIS job...

On today's signing
Said he believes Saudi Arabia will join other countries in normalizing relations with Israel

On Nevada:
The Gov of Nevada should not be in charge of ballots.

Marine One wheels up at 3:52pm 
[
] 


???Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 8:05p.m.

POTUS entered White House at 8:08pm without taking questions. 


??Travel/Photo Lid called at 8:12pm

Good Night! 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




?Around 200 people were invited , at this most of the guests are here on the South Lawn , some are seated .

There is a band playing in the background , I spotted heads of think tanks who are working on the Israel Palestinian conflict . Few lawmakers , I saw Kevin McCarthy, former peace enjoy Jason Greebblatt, state spokeswoman , Morgan Ortagus .

A stage is set with four brown chair and a table ready for

Some guests are wearing masks , many are not . 


UAE Attendees

Foreign Minister Abdullah Bin Zaid
Ambassador Al Otaiba
HE Reem Al Hashemi
HE Omar Ghobash
HE Dr. Sultan Al Jaber
HE Abdulla bin Touq
HE Obaid Al Tayer
Ambassador Lana Nusseibeh of the UN. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Marine One touched down at JBA at 4:04 p.m.

President Donald Trump exited and boarded Air Force One at 4:07 p.m.

Also spotted boarding: McEnany, Hicks, Scavino, Meadows.

Taking off soon for Philadelphia. 


Air Force One left the ground at 4:15 p.m. - touched down hard in Philadelphia at 4:40 p.m.

President Trump disembarked at 4:57 p.m., spoke briefly with some guests who greeted him, and entered the limo.

The motorcade will soon be headed downtown to the National Constitution Center, site of the ABC town hall.

A list of greeters at the airport, per the White House:
Martina White
State Representative for Pennsylvania's 170th Legislative District

Lou Barletta
Former United States Representative from Pennsylvania

John McNesby
President, Philadelphia Fraternal Order of Police 


Motorcade rolled from the tarmac at 5:01 p.m.

We arrived at the National Constitution Center at 5:13 p.m.

After exiting the airport, a line of uniformed officers stood at attention and saluted the motorcade as it rolled past. Don't know where those officers were from.

No issues during the motorcade. It took freeways into downtown, which was not very crowded - there were more police than pedestrians, most of whom took video and snapshots of the motorcade.

We are now in a holding room - it doesn't look like we will get access to the taping of the town hall. 


The town hall taping is just about done and the travel pool is packing up at 6:30 p.m.

We had no access to the event, which ABC will broadcast starting at 9 p.m., eastern.

Also: The White House passes along that a fourth person greeted President Trump at the airport earlier in the day:

John Bland

Business Manager and Secretary Treasurer, Boilermakers Local 13

Repeating from previous pool report: Other greeters at the airport, per the White House:

Martina White
State Representative for Pennsylvania's 170th Legislative District

Lou Barletta
Former United States Representative from Pennsylvania

John McNesby
President, Philadelphia Fraternal Order of Police 


Motorcade pulled away from the National Constitution Center at 6:51 p.m.

Lots of police lined the streets leading to the freeway. Motorcade raced past the ballpark, where the lights were on ahead of the (fan-less) Phillies-Mets game.

Arrived at airport at 7:03 p.m.

A few Trump fans gathered near the airfield entrance.

President Trump boarded Air Force One quickly.

Taking off soon for JBA 


Air Force One lifted off from Philadelphia at 7:13 p.m.

Touched down at JBA at 7:39 p.m.

Uneventful flight (though President Trump tweeted out a picture of himself with a large Philly cheesesteak).

Trump exited AF1 at 7:50 p.m. He boarded Marine One and it took off from JBA at 7:56 p.m.

Over and out. 