







"After two days of intense criticism, Joseph R. Biden Jr. reversed himself Thursday night on one of the issues most important to Democratic voters, saying he no longer supports a measure that bans federal funding for most abortions. As recently as Wednesday, Mr. Biden's campaign had said he supported the measure, known as the Hyde Amendment." (Katie Glueck, "Joe Biden Denounces Hyde Amendment, Reversing His Position," 
, 6/6/19)

 BIDEN: "The Hyde Amendment, look, when you move in a direction that all of the healthcare is available to be able to go through a federal system, the Hyde Amendment, which every single member running for office in the Democratic primary voted for, every single one. The Hyde amendment was designed to say that when there is an alternative that was available to everybody for poor women is available. When you're not cutting off everything from planned parenthood which I have a 100 percent voting record from etc. then in fact it made sense to say ok in fact that will be available. Once you go out and say Medicare for all or you go out and propose like I do, you have increased Obamacare to provide a public option then what you're saying is that Roe V. Wade is not available to poor people under any circumstance because it is with federal money. Federal money. So, I have came out a while ago saying we have to get rid of the Hyde Amendment because it is no longer doable and usable and no longer a serious option for anyone." (Joe Biden, 
 Nashua, NH, 12/8/19)






"Restore federal funding for Planned Parenthood. The Obama-Biden administration fought Republican attacks on funding for Planned Parenthood again and again. More than one-third of Planned Parenthood's patients are people of color, including more than half a million Latino patients and nearly 400,0000 African-American patients. As president, Biden will reissue guidance specifying that states cannot refuse Medicaid funding for Planned Parenthood and other providers that refer for abortions or provide related information and reverse the Trump Administration's rule preventing Planned Parenthood and certain other family planning programs from obtaining Title X funds." ("Health Care: Communities Of Color," 
, Accessed 1/2/20)

Biden pledged to end a range of Trump policies, including the travel ban halting immigration from a group of mostly Muslim countries, efforts to cut down on asylum applicants and the global gag rule, which blocks federal funding for nongovernmental organizations that provide services related to abortion." (Jennifer Epstein, "Biden Outlines Plans to Reset U.S. Foreign Policy After Trump," 
, 7/11/19)



JOE BIDEN: "It means appointing to ending the fact, we stop appointing right-wing unqualified justices by codifying Roe V. Wade as a matter of law." (Joe Biden, 
, 10/17/19)






"Reverse the Trump Administration and states' all-out assault on women's right to choose. As president, Biden will work to codify Roe v. Wade, and his Justice Department will do everything in its power to stop the rash of state laws that so blatantly violate the constitutional right to an abortion, such as so-called TRAP laws, parental notification requirements, mandatory waiting periods, and ultrasound requirements." ("Health Care: Communities Of Color," 
, Accessed 1/2/20)



"Unborn Victims of Violence Act of 2004 or Laci and Conner's Law - Provides that persons who commit certain Federal violent crimes (conduct that violates specified provisions of the Federal criminal code, the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, or specified articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) ) and thereby cause the death of, or bodily injury to, a child who is in utero shall be guilty of a separate offense. Requires the punishment for that separate offense to be the same as provided under Federal law for that conduct had that injury or death occurred to the unborn child's mother (or in the case of a UCMJ violation, to be such punishment as a court-martial may direct, which shall be consistent with the punishments prescribed by the President for such conduct had that injury or death occurred to the unborn child's mother)." (H.R. 1997, 
, Passed 61-38, 3/25/04, Biden Voted Nay)



JOE BIDEN: "The fact of the matter is the people I'll put into the court are the people like a woman who worked for me Elena Kagan. The people I'd put on the court are the people we put on the court who in fact are the folks who understand there's a fundamental thing for those of you who are lawyers. The question is are there unenumerated rights in the constitution – a fancy way of saying that unless you acknowledge that there is a right of privacy in the constitution as most leading scholars agree that in fact you will not be able to protect a woman's right to choose. You will not be able to protect all the things that we seem to care so much about. I will not appoint anyone to the court who does not share that basic philosophy." (Joe Biden, 
, 8/8/19)






BRIAN WILLIAMS: "Senator, thank you. Senator Biden, as president, would you have a specific litmus test question on Roe versus Wade that you would ask of your nominees for the high court?" SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I strongly support Roe v. Wade. I wouldn't have a specific question, but I'd make sure that the people I sent to be nominated to the Supreme Court shared my values and understood that there is a right to privacy in the United States Constitution. That's why I led the fight to defeat Bork. Thank God he's not on the court or this would -- Roe v. Wade would be gone by now. Number two, that's why I was so outspoken and been criticized for being outspoken in leading the effort to try to defeat Roberts and Alito. That's why I opposed the other -- Thomas on the court. The truth of the matter is that the -- this decision was intellectually dishonest. I think it's a rare procedure that should only be available when the woman's life and health is at stake. But what this court did, it took that decision and it said in a -- put a Trojan horse in it to actually dishonest reasoning, lay the groundwork for undoing Roe v. Wade. That's the danger of this decision, not the specific procedure, but the rationale offered to justify, I think, the next step they're going to try to take." (Sen. Joe Biden, 
, Orangeburg, SC, 4/27/07)








"NARAL Pro-Choice America today announced its endorsement of Vice President Joe Biden in his campaign for president of the United States. ... Joe Biden has outlined his commitment to protecting and expanding reproductive freedom by vowing to work to safeguard Roe v. Wade, only appoint judges who will respect Roe, support the repeal of the racist and discriminatory Hyde Amendment, and use executive action to protect and expand access to abortion and contraception, including reversing Trump's rules gutting reproductive freedom, like the global and domestic gag rules. These commitments are critical given the threat Donald Trump poses to our fundamental rights and everything our nation holds dear." (Press Release, "NARAL Pro-Choice America Endorses Vice President Joe Biden For President," 
, 7/27/20)





"An Obama Administration regulation requiring that many employers — including religious employers — provide insurance without copays or deductibles that covers a wide range of contraceptives, including sterilization, as part of women's preventive health care." (Stuart Taylor Jr., "More ACA Lawsuits: The 'Contraceptive Mandate' Versus Religious Freedom (Analysis)," 
, 12/13/12)

"Under the challenged regulations, nonprofit employers like the Little Sisters of the Poor must either submit a self-certification form to their insurer or health plan administrator or notify the Department of Health and Human Services of their religious objection to providing contraceptive coverage in writing and provide contact information for their health plan insurer or third-party administrator. Either way, the actions taken by the employer would authorize the inclusion of coverage of the objectionable drugs and devices in its health plan. The Little Sisters of the Poor could not in good conscience play such an indispensable part in the machinery that provides abortion-inducing drugs and devices through health plans and infrastructure that they are paying for and providing to their employees." (Roger Servino and Elizabeth Slattery, "Little Sisters of the Poor Win Big in Obamacare Case," 
, 5/17/16)

"The Obama administration took another step on Friday to enforce a federal mandate for health insurance coverage of contraceptives, announcing how the new requirement would apply to the many Roman Catholic hospitals, universities and social service agencies that insure themselves." (Robert Pear, "U.S. Clarifies Policy On Birth Control For Religious Groups," 
, 3/16/12)



"Presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden issued a statement Wednesday evening in which he said he is 'disappointed in today's U.S. Supreme Court decision' in the case 
'I will restore the Obama-Biden policy that existed before the [2014 Supreme Court] 
ruling,' Biden said." (John McCormack, "Biden Says He Would Rescind Exemption for Little Sisters of the Poor," 
, 7/9/20)

"Biden's use of nuns as an inspirational example of 'generosity to others' comes despite his promise to renew legal action against the Little Sisters of the Poor should he win election. ... Biden's use of the nuns' example of service for campaign purposes sits in contrast to his pledge to force one religious order to violate their consciences and provide birth control, sterilizations, and abortifacient drugs to their employees. Shortly after the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Little Sisters of the Poor in 
v. 
 on July 8, Biden said he was 'disappointed' by the decision and promised to reinstate Obama-era policies requiring the sisters to ensure access to birth control in violation of their religious beliefs. 'If I am elected I will restore the Obama-Biden policy that existed before the [Supreme Court's 2014] 
 ruling: providing an exemption for houses of worship and an accommodation for nonprofit organizations with religious missions,' said Biden in July. " (CNA Staff, "Biden Says Nuns Inspire Him To Run, Plans To Sue Little Sisters Of The Poor," 
, 8/13/20)





"California Democratic United States Senator Kamala Harris reiterated her plan to push for on demand abortion if she is elected as the next President of the United States. In 
 last week, she wrote, 'What we're seeing across the country and in the White House makes it clearer than ever that we have to do more to protect women's access to health care. That's exactly what I will do when I'm president,' Harris said. One of Harris' top priorities if elected President is to end the Hyde Amendment. 'I will ... continue to fight so that all women have access to reproductive health care [abortion] regardless of how much money they make by continuing my career-long opposition to the Hyde Amendment,' Harris said." (Joshua Denton, "CA Democrat Kamala Harris Wants To End The Hyde Amendment If Elected President," 
, 6/27/19)

Trump's domestic gag rule is forcing Planned Parenthood out of Title X, limiting access to affordable birth control and critical reproductive care for millions of people. This is a disgrace. As president, I will undo this gag rule on my first day in office." (Kamala Harris,
, 8/19/19)






SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "It means not only would it be Supreme Court precedent, not only would it be something that should be enforceable in our court, but it would be enforceable in terms of the law of the land." MSNBC'S CHRIS HAYES: "Like a federal statute?" SENATOR KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "As a federal statute. And in that way we could obviously attach then all of the federal conditions that go on to what we do around state funding and what we do in terms of public health funding to make sure that no state legislaturecan just basically undo the important acts." (Marie Lodi and Erica Schwiegershausen, "Democratic Candidates Have Promised To 'Codify' Roe. V Wade. What Does That Mean?" 
, 10/16/19)






"The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (S.311) would require that appropriate medical care be given to any child who survives an attempted abortion and would establish criminal penalties for health care practitioners that violate this requirement." ("Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act," 
, Accessed 8/14/20)

"A supporter of abortion rights, Harris 
 that would limit abortions to the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. As California state attorney general, she 
 an investigation of anti-abortion activist David Daleiden, whose undercover videos later sparked charges of breaking privacy laws. His supporters said Harris' relationship with Planned Parenthood was a conflict of interest." ("What Does Kamala Harris Believe? Where The Candidate Stands On 9 Issues," 
, 1/21/19)



Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) on Tuesday unveiled a broad platform to protect abortion rights that's modeled on the Voting Rights Act, arguing that strict new abortion bans passed in states including Alabama, Georgia and Missouri demonstrate the need for more federal guardrails. The plan depends, however, on a Congress highly favorable to abortion right." (Alice Mirando Ollstein, "How Kamala Harris Would Protect Abortion Rights," 
, 5/28/19)





SEN. KAMALA HARRIS (D-CA): "Are we going to go back to the days of back alley abortions? Women died before we had Roe v. Wade in place. And so I'm going to tell you, on this issue, I'm kind of done, because here's how I feel about it, guys. Let me tell you. Here's the thing. There are states that keep passing these laws. And so, when elected, I'm going to put in place and require that states that have a history of passing legislation that is designed to prevent or limit a woman's access to reproductive health care, that those laws have to come before my Department of Justice for a review and approval, and until we determine that they are constitutional, they will not take effect." (MSNBC Town Hall, 5/28/19)








 (Press Release, "
," 5/23/19)

"The legislation would also make it impossible for states to enact or enforce informed-consent laws and waiting-period requirements, which have often been upheld by courts as permissible under our current abortion jurisprudence. So much for federalism." (Alexandra Desanctis, "Kamala Harris's Abortion Absolutism," 
, 8/12/20)



. (Congressional Record On Choice, "Senator Kamala Harris," 
, Accessed 8/11/20)






"This bill is co-sponsored by Attorney General Kamala Harris, NARAL Pro-Choice California, and Black Women for Wellness. 'California has been a national leader in promoting and protecting equal access to the full range of women's reproductive health care options,' said Attorney General Harris. 'The Reproductive FACT Act will ensure that women are empowered to make informed and timely decisions about their health and their bodies.'" (Press Release, "David Chiu And Autumn Burke, Attorney General Kamala Harris, And Religious Leaders And Healthcare Providers Urge Passage Of Reproductive FACT Act," 
, 5/20/15)

 "Lawsuits were filed by Pacific Justice Institute in federal courts in both southern and northern California in behalf of clinics. The clinics represented by PJI provide free medical services and counseling as an alternative option to abortion to women facing unwanted pregnancies. Brad Dacus, president of the PJI stated, ?'Forcing a religious pro-life charity to proclaim a pro-abortion declaration is on its face an egregious violation of both the free speech and free exercise clauses of the First Amendment to the Constitution. We will not rest until this government mandate is completely halted. 'Claims for violation of freedom of speech and the free exercise of religion are cited in papers filed with the federal courts. The complaint (see below) alleges that the law forces Christian medical clinics to proclaim a government message for which the clinics disagree. "The context of delivering this government message is the center of a public debate over the morality and efficacy of abortion, for which these clinics provide alternatives," the lawsuit reads. Kevin Snider is the PJI attorney who is serving as lead counsel on the case. Snider drafted the complaint which he filed shortly after the Governor signed the bill into law." ("Suits Filed To Stop State-Compelled Speech," 
, 10/12/15)

. "In 2018, the Supreme Court issued a historic ruling in favor of the free speech rights of pro-life pregnancy centers and all Americans. In addition to protecting the work of life-affirming pregnancy centers, this landmark ruling also expanded protections for the free speech rights of medical professionals, Christian counselors and churches. While this case was pivotal in the pro-life pregnancy center movement, it also proved to be a watershed moment for the nation as a whole. 
 raised public awareness around the life issue like never before, sparking a wave of efforts to protect life across the U.S." ("NIFLA V. Becerra- Supreme Court Case Information," 
, 6/26/18)





"California Attorney General Kamala Harris, who sent agents to raid the home a citizen journalist who exposed Planned Parenthood's practices of harvesting and selling the body parts of aborted babies, is using her Senate campaign website to advocate for the abortion giant, promoting a petition to defend Planned Parenthood. Ms. Harris is engaging in exceptionally corrupt behavior, using her office as AG to aide a staunch supporter of her campaign. This is exactly the kind of puppeteering and blatant of conflict of interest that the American public is sick and tired of. Ms. Harris should immediately resign her position as the California Attorney General." (Paul Bedard, "Calif. AG Targeting Abortion Foe Uses Planned Parenthood To Raise Funds For Senate Bid," 
, 4/6/16)

"Harris personally met with six Planned Parenthood executives in March 2016, at the attorney general's Los Angeles office. An email outlining action items from the meeting shows that they discussed both Planned Parenthood's political agenda in the state of California and her investigation into Daleiden and the Center for Medical Progress. Two of the six executives in that meeting were used as witnesses in Harris' criminal investigation. Two weeks after that Los Angeles meeting, Harris ordered a search warrant specifically seeking Daleiden's unreleased videos and documents, which should have been protected by the California shield law protecting citizen journalists' unpublished materials. Harris has received tens of thousands of dollars in political contributions from Planned Parenthood-affiliated entities." (Madeline Osburn, "David Daleiden Sues Planned Parenthood, Kamala Harris For Using Video Recording Laws As Political Weapon," 
, 5/13/20)

 "On Tuesday, agents from the Department of Justice under Harris 
on the Huntington Beach apartment of David Daleiden, an activist whose release of undercover video recordings last summer triggered that funding vote in Congress. Property receipts left by state agents show they seized multiple computers and hard drives and materials from Planned Parenthood conferences Daleiden covertly attended. Receipts also show they seized California IDs issued to 'Brianna Allen,' the name used by one of his accomplices, and a California driver license in the name of Robert Sarkis, the name used by Daleiden." (Paige St. John, "Kamala Harris' Support For Planned Parenthood Draws Fire On Anti-Abortion Activist," 
, 4/7/16)

 "California Attorney General Kamala Harris is facing conflict-of-interest accusations after launching a raid on pro-life activist David Daleiden's apartment even as she campaigns for the U.S. Senate on a pro-Planned Parenthood platform." (Valerie Richardson, "California Attorney General Behind Raid Of Pro-Life Activist Slammed For Planned Parenthood Advocacy," 
, 4/6/16)

"Ronald D. Rotunda, a professor of jurisprudence at Chapman University, said the emails show Ms. Harris is a 'tool of Planned Parenthood.' He said it is not uncommon for the attorney general to play a role in the legislative process, but added that Ms. Harris in this case was 'working with Planned Parenthood to protect it from criminal prosecution.'" (Bradford Richardson, "Kamala Harris Teamed Up With Planned Parenthood To Target David Daleiden," 
, 9/27/16)

The director of a California-based advocacy law firm, the Life Legal Defense Foundation, accused Harris of 'loyalty to Planned Parenthood' that 'requires her to turn a blind eye to the organization's criminal activities.' 'Instead, she has launched an inquisition into David Daleiden,' said Alexandra Snyder, the foundation's director." (Paige St. John, "Kamala Harris' Support For Planned Parenthood Draws Fire On Anti-Abortion Activist," 
 4/7/16)

Anti-abortion group Susan B. Anthony List has called on California Attorney General Kamala Harris to resign, and to end her run for the Senate, 
The statement said Planned Parenthood donated to her campaign, and that Harris, as attorney general, defends the organization. The statement tied that to Harris's office raiding anti-abortion video maker Daniel Daleiden's home. Harris's actions are 'the epitome of conflict of interest and abuse of power,' said the statement by SBA List president Marjorie Dannenfelser." (Joe Crowe, "Pro-Life Group TO Calif. AG Harris: Resign And End Your Senate Run," 
, 4/7/16)

"In May, pro-life activist and citizen journalist David Daleiden of the Center for Medical Progress filed a lawsuit against Harris and others in response to his home being raided after he exposed Planned Parenthood's harvesting of aborted baby body parts for profit. In response to the CMP's release of videos showing Planned Parenthood violating the law, then California Attorney General Harris 
 where his laptop, hard drives, and unreleased undercover videos were taken." (Michael Gryboski, "5 Kamala Harris Controversies: Extramarital Affair, Pro-Life Raid And Knights Of Columbus Criticism," 
, 8/12/20)





In late 2018, while evaluating the nomination of Brian Buescher to serve as a district judge in Nebraska, Harris posed a series of questions insinuating that his involvement in the Knights of Columbus — a charitable Catholic fraternal organization — disqualified him from serving on the bench. Here's one of her written questions: Since 1993, you have been a member of the Knights of Columbus, an all-male society comprised primarily of Catholic men. In 2016, Carl Anderson, leader of the Knights of Columbus, described abortion as 'a legal regime that has resulted in more than 40 million deaths.' Mr. Anderson went on to say that 'abortion is the killing of the innocent on a massive scale.' Were you aware that the Knights of Columbus opposed a woman's right to choose when you joined the organization. She went on to ask Buescher whether he was 'aware that the Knights of Columbus opposed marriage equality when [he] joined the organization' and whether he had 'never, in any way, assisted with or contributed to advocacy against women's reproductive rights.'" (Alexander Desanctis, "Kamala Harris's Anti-Catholic Bigotry," 
, 8/11/20)

"On Wednesday the Senate approved a resolution that rebuked two Democratic senators for questioning judicial nominees about their membership in the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal service organization. The resolution, introduced by Sen. Ben Sasse (R., Neb.), affirmed 'the sense of the Senate that disqualifying a nominee to federal office on the basis of membership in the Knights of Columbus violates the Constitution of the United States.' The Senate proceeded to affirm the resolution without objection." (Jeffrey Cimmino, "Senate Rebukes Harris And Hirono On Knights Of Columbus," 
, 1/16/19)



" "Today's ruling is a setback for reproductive health. As our country continues to face an unprecedented public health crisis, we should be building upon the success of the ACA and expanding access to affordable health care for everyone in America. Instead, the Trump administration has relentlessly attempted to rip health care away from millions of people across the country, including the 61.4 million people whose contraception has been covered without out-of-pocket costs thanks to the ACA. "For scores of workers, the Court ruled that whether their health insurance covers birth control is up to their boss. This decision is dangerous, particularly for people of color, low-wage workers, and LGBTQ+ people who are more likely to face financial and other barriers to care. Now, more than ever, Congress must take action to protect and expand access to contraception and other reproductive health care." (Press Release, "Harris Statement On Supreme Court Decision Restricting Access To Birth Control,"
 7/8/20)



 Congressional Democrats reintroduced on Thursday an amendment to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) that aims to ensure the 1993 legislation is not used to permit discrimination in the name of religion. The 
states that RFRA 'should not be interpreted to authorize an exemption from generally applicable law that imposes the religious views, habits, or practices of one party upon another.'" (Gwen Aviles, "Congressional Democrats Reintroduce The Do No Harm Act," 
, 3/1/19)



California Attorney General Kamala Harris is running for Senate, and some liberals call her a future President. So it's worth putting on the record how she blew up a deal by Prime 
 to rescue a group of struggling Catholic hospitals so she could curry favor with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU)." ("When Unions Trump Hospitals," 
, 3/18/15)

Last year the Daughters of Charity Health System sought to sell its six insolvent hospitals in California to Prime for $843 million including debt and pension liabilities. State law requires the AG to approve nonprofit hospital acquisitions. Ms. Harris attached several poison pills at the urging of the SEIU, which forced Prime last week to withdraw its offer." ("When Unions Trump Hospitals," 
, 3/18/15)

"Later in 2015 Ms. Harris approved the Daughters' hospital sale to the BlueMountain Capital hedge fund for $260 million including $160 million in debt. The SEIU supported that deal. While imposing similar conditions on BlueMountain as on Prime, Ms. Harris allowed the hedge fund to operate the hospitals as tax-exempt nonprofits for several years. Yet burdened by debt and expensive collective-bargaining agreements, the hospital chain declared bankruptcy in August 2018 and was put up for sale. The federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. assumed its pension obligations and slashed payments to workers and retirees. Two hospitals were sold to local governments for a pittance." (Editorial, "Getting To Know Kamala Harris," 
, 8/12/20)