: "And it's been the failure of this president to deal, to deal with this virus ... Imagine had he at the State of Union stood up and said, when back in January . . . Imagine if he had said something."
: Trump directly mentioned the coronavirus during his State of the Union address in February.
:"I'm not joking, like guys like me, with the first in my family to go to college..."
: Biden not only isn't the first in his family to go to college, he previously admitted he had lied when he made the same claim in 1987.
"How many of you all own stock? ... In my neighborhood in Scranton not a whole lot of people own stock."
 A majority of Americans own stock either directly or indirectly, meaning they are helped by a stronger stock market.
: "We can put to work, right away, 250,000 people . . . capping those wells that are leaking methane and are a danger to the community."
: There is no independent estimate to support Biden's claim, with studies showing such a policy would create only 5 or 10 percent as many jobs as Biden says.
: "Back in January, I wrote an article for 
 saying we've got a real problem."
: Rather than laying out a detailed plan for action against a possible pandemic, Biden's January 27 op-ed attacked President Trump and largely focused on the Ebola crisis.
: "With the abundance of natural gas in northeast Pennsylvania, do you support the continuation of fracking safely and with proper guidelines of course and growing the industry to add additional jobs to our region?" BIDEN: "Yes, I do. I do."
: Biden has repeatedly stated that he would end fracking and fossil fuels.
: "Columbia Medical School pointed out if [Trump] acted one week earlier, he would have saved 37,000 lives. All the way back, and I was on one of your shows, all the way back in March, I was calling for the need for us to have masks, have the president's staff tell us what's going on."
: Biden's criticism directly contradicts what he did in early March, as he continued to hold in-person campaign events through March 10, and was not seen wearing a mask until April.
The president has yet to condemn ... white supremacists."
: Biden's vicious claim is completely false and has previously been debunked.