Pool Reports below by 
, 




The motorcade departed the White House at 10:35. Your pooler did not get a visual on FLOTUS from our location in the press van. 


Flotus boarded executive one foxtrot at approximately 11:02, after an uneventful motorcade. She is wearing a brown jacket and slacks today, with high heels.

Mrs. Trump came back in the plane to say hello to ONDCP director Jim Carroll before heading to her private seating area.

At 11:11, we are taxiing, about to be wheels up.

Should be about an hour and fifteen minutes to New Hampshire.


FLOTUS plane landed at 12:20 at Manchester-Boston Airport after a relatively smooth hour-ish long flight.

On the ground we were joined by 4 local press, one of whom is shooting stills for AP. Your pooler should note there was no still photographer From WH press on this FLOTUS trip - a first for this pooler. Numbers are being kept small due to Covid precautions and because the event is taking place at a hospital, a White House official tells me.

We are shortly en route to Concord Hospital.


?As we motorcade to the hospital visit, passing along below information on attendees at the hospital Simulation Center tour and roundtable, embargoed until it occurs, provided by the first lady's office. Additionally, adding her remarks, also embargoed until delivery.

The Simulation Center features several "stations" consisting of activities and/or treatments aimed at helping provide comfort and care to babies born with NAS (neonatal abstinent syndrome), a White House official tells the press pool. The official adds the first lady will meet with a family who has already completed the NAS program. She will also meet one of the "cuddle volunteers," whose job it is to hold and soothe the babies.

(*Your pooler also wanted to note the first lady was not wearing a mask as she disembarked her plane, however, all staff members were wearing masks, as were all USSS agents and press.)

 
: 
-110pm (12 mins)


 
145pm
 


 








































Flotus arrived to the hospital at 1:10, greeted indoors by an administrator.

Should note FLOTUS is now wearing a mask.

After hearing a brief outline of what she will be seeing, FLOTUS said, "I'm looking forward to it, thank you so much."

Her first stop is one of the clinician rooms where a small babydoll is in a medical crib. Four staff members are telling FLOTUS about the various treatments they use for NAS babies. FLOTUS is listening, along with ONDCP Director Carroll.

Press was ushered out after two of the four staff had done their presentations. We are now holding until the round table. The meeting with the family and the volunteer cuddler are closed press.

Attaching a phone pic:


?A staff member from the first lady's office has told the pool that in addition to mandated masks at the hospital, everyone who is in close proximity to FLOTUS today during the visit was previously tested for Covid 19 prior to her arrival.

This includes the administrators, clinicians, the family she is meeting and all the roundtable participants. 


?A White House official tells the pool FLOTUS has gifted the hospital's Special Care Unit Nursery with 20 fleece Be Best baby blankets, to be used for future babies. There are no babies at this time in the nursery, which a hospital administrator tells the pool is very unusual, but "good news." FLOTUS did not visit the nursery due to Covid restrictions, says the official.

Provided photo from WH of the blankets - attached.

[INSERT PHOTO 1 HERE]


FLOTUS delivered her prepared remarks for approximately four minutes, speaking through her mask. She noted the "shining example of the kind spirit" of the community at this hospital, and added she has learned during her tenure visiting recovery and treatment programs that "drug addiction does not discriminate." She also talked about the issue of NAS, and the importance of helping mothers and babies.

When she was finished, she turned the floor over to Director Carroll for his remarks. There are five other roundtable participants.

Pics of FLOTUS speaking with her mask on:

[INSERT PHOTO 1 HERE]

[INSERT PHOTO 2 HERE]


The pool was ushered out of the roundtable event as the last speaker, Erin Collins, a hospital administrator and the VP of Nursing, was giving her remarks. We were also led out before a planned Q&A session and thus do not know what questions FLOTUS asked, if any.

The pool was able to hear from four other speakers, most of whom spoke for several minutes about the importance of Concord Hospital's programs, as well as community support, both physically and financially. Of note, there are currently 45 volunteer cuddlers in the soothing program, and another 50 on the waitlist. Lots of people want to cuddle those babies!

The pool is now holding in vans outside, awaiting FLOTUS for motorcade back to airport.


Embargoed until arrival:

FLOTUS is making an off the record stop at the Manchester Fire Department Central Station. This is the same station she visited with POTUS in 2018. A White House official says Mrs. Trump wanted to "check back in with them," and hear about the progress of the "Safe Station Room" at the fire house, which allows for people overdosing on drugs to come in and be treated. The fire station was apparently just alerted to the visit several minutes ago, and we are told we are about ten minutes out.

Your pooler should note this is the first time FLOTUS has done an off the record solo stop, with the press in tow.

Some information provided by the first lady's office:

The First Lady will be greeted by Chief Goonan for a brief update on the Fire Station since her 2018 visit. 


More information on safe stations: 


FLOTUS entered the fire station at approximately 3:00, greeted by chief Goonan. Several of the firefighters were lined up behind him to greet her.

FLOTUS thanked the firefighters for "all that you do" and "the sacrifices you and your families make" for them to do their jobs.

The chief told FLOTUS so far this year they have had about 7500 people come through the Safe Station program, asking for help. "We call this a stigma-free zone," he said. "They ask for help, we don't ask questions."

FLOTUS also thanked a handful of Station support staff and Heath Department workers who had assembled, adding "Stay safe."

She and Director Carroll took a brief tour of the station and FLOTUS asked who they were most commonly seeing come in and the chief said mostly men in their 30s. The chief said he's seeing more people come in with meth issues, to which FLOTUS said "so dangerous."

As the press was ushered out of the station Flotus took photos with the firefighters. We are now back en route to the airport.


At 4:15 we are back at the plane and about to be wheels-up.


At 5:35 we are wheels down back at JBA. An uneventful flight, but a tasty provided snack of chicken salad and pita bread.


At 6:07 we are back at the White House. Did not see flotus exit. Press dropped off at East Wing side due we assume to POTUS departure prep.