During the 2016 campaign, President Donald Trump promised tax cuts that would create jobs and provide substantial savings for working families. What did he deliver?

For four years, Trump has relentlessly pursued an economic agenda that rewards wealth over work and favors multinational corporations over small businesses. After first trying to strip health care protections away from 
 with pre-existing conditions, President Trump spent the remainder of his first year in office fighting for a $1.5 trillion tax giveaway primarily for large corporations and the wealthy. His Republican allies in Congress even admitted they needed to pass the bill 
. Almost immediately after signing the bill into law, Trump flew to Mar-a-Lago to tell his club's wealthy members, "
"

But middle-class Americans were largely left out. Tax experts estimate that over the long run, 
Trump's tax giveaway will flow to the top 1% of earners in this country. And, while our country faces an 
, the average Black and Latino family received 
 the tax savings as the average white family. Trump even snuck in a hidden middle-class tax hike that will kick in after he leaves office to pay for this permanent corporate tax giveaway.

As President, Biden will require corporations and the wealthiest Americans to finally pay their fair share. He won't ask a single person making under $400,000 per year to pay a penny more in taxes, and will in fact enact more than one-dozen middle class tax cuts that will finally give working families the financial support they deserve. But struggling families need support immediately, which is why Biden is demanding that Trump get off the golf course and provide emergency tax relief to middle class families as part of a new COVID-19 response package.

Trump has not only refused to deliver for struggling working families, he is now pushing for another misguided tax giveaway for America's wealthiest families. That's the fundamental difference between Trump and Biden – Trump is focused on further enriching billionaires like himself, while Biden wakes up every day asking how he can help the middle class. 


While 2020 has brought untold pain and economic hardship for tens of millions of working families, America's richest billionaires have seen their fortunes swell. Trump should be focused on helping struggling Americans make their rent and mortgage payments, keep their lights on, and put food on the table for their children. Instead, he is focused on delivering yet another tax giveaway for the wealthy. Trump has pledged to lower the maximum capital gains rate - the tax paid on profits from investments - to just 15% for wealthy Americans.

In Trump's America, a working family making $65,000 will pay 22% on every extra dollar they earn, not including payroll taxes, while billionaires will pay just 15% on their profits from investments. Trump's billionaire tax giveaway will mean untold hundreds of billions of dollars in tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires over time. Indeed, it provides tens of billions of dollars in tax giveaways to billionaires just for their gains during the COVID year of 2020. In effect:

 


Trump's original tax cut blatantly prioritized wealth over work, large corporations over small businesses, and even foreign investors over the American middle class. It is no wonder that:

 In 2018, in the wake of the Trump tax giveaway, 
 on their income and another 56 paid less than 5 percent. These firms could have used their tax windfall to raise wages, purchase new equipment, or invest in research and development. But Trump's tax giveaway had no strings attached: many of these corporations simply passed their higher profits through to investors and executives by repurchasing more than 
 worth of their own stock. Even worse, many of these companies took advantage of Trump's 
 and shipped jobs overseas.

Just a few examples of the harmful impact of Trump's corporate tax giveaway include:

 
Trump and his allies needed to sacrifice something in order to satisfy congressional rules and pass their tax giveaway for large corporations and the wealthy. Their solution was to 
 by slowing the rate of inflation in the tax code, which will push working families into higher and higher tax brackets over time and devalue the amount of their tax credits. 




While Trump and his allies have sought to mislead, deceive, and flat-out lie by suggesting Biden will raise taxes on ordinary Americans, fact-checkers have called this desperate line of attack what it is – 
.

 Joe Biden will not raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000. Period. But he will ask wealthy Americans and big corporations to pay their fair share, including by:

 Joe Biden will provide meaningful tax relief for working families. For years, these Americans have felt the squeeze of 
 and an 
. Now, Trump's tragic mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic has produced an almost unprecedented economic crisis. Almost 
 live in a household that has lost employment income since mid-March and 1 in 4 expect to lose income in September. Approximately 
 believe they will likely face eviction over the next two months and more than 1 in 5 homeowners consider foreclosure likely.

Biden is proposing more than a dozen bold policies to bolster financial security and spur economic growth by reducing taxes on the middle class.

Biden understands the urgency of delivering immediate financial assistance to working families. As President, 
. Biden's CTC expansion will provide thousands of dollars of tax relief for middle-class households. It will also help the most-hard pressed working families avoid poverty and attain greater economic security. Specifically, Biden will increase the CTC to $3,000 per child for children ages 6 to 17 and $3,600 for children under 6. He will also make the CTC fully refundable so that hard-pressed families can access these resources quickly. And, he will allow families to receive monthly payments if they choose. Under the Biden plan, for 2021 and then as long as economic conditions require:

 

