: "I'm not going to steal the money that desperately needed to reconstruct [Puerto Rico] in order to build a wall along the border that does nothing to keep Americans safe."
: Biden's claim is false; Puerto Rico's recovery has not been affected by the decision to reallocate FEMA money.
: "The President ... is going to in fact no longer collect the Social Security requirement. Six and a half percent of income, from the employer and the employee. The actuary at Social Security says that'll bankrupt the system in three years. No money. Zero. Nothing."
: This attack from Biden is false, and has previously been debunked by fact checkers. The President's payroll tax deferral will not harm Social Security.
: "I would be setting the example that I've tried to set since [the pandemic] began, of being responsible, wearing masks. You saw what [Trump] did the other day in uh – when he went indoors in Nevada. He had those large crowds..."
: This is false; Biden continued to hold in-person events through March 10, and was not seen wearing a mask until April.
: "The President talks about how suburbia is going to be ruined by integration or whatever the heck he's saying now."
: This is false; President Trump has been warning about Joe Biden's plan to bring back a disastrous Obama-era housing rule that was "complicated, costly, and ineffective" and took zoning decisions out of the hands of cities.
 "President Trump likes to say he passed the VA CHOICE. But just like everything else he seems to be saying, it's a figment of his imagination. It's a flat lie."
As VA Secretary Robert Wilkie has said, this is "semantics"; the Trump Administration has expanded VA CHOICE after the Obama-Biden Administration failed to successfully deliver choice to veterans.
: President Trump "calls [servicemembers] 'suckers and losers.'"
: At least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:
Additionally, 
reporting has been refuted by a White House email and Navy documents that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne cemetery in 2018.