, compounded by President Donald Trump's failure to deal with COVID-19 and its impact on families across this country.

 Educators, students, and families are doing heroic work, but students are falling behind, parents are struggling to cope, and educators are worried for their health and that of their families and students. And for communities of color the impact has been devastating. We cannot go on like this.

 For months, Joe Biden urged President Trump to demonstrate the leadership that this crisis demands. Biden has laid out a clear 
 to support local decision-making on reopening schools safely and to help students whose learning was interrupted.

 He is all bluster and bullying, while Betsy DeVos, his Secretary of Education, has gone so far as to welcome COVID-19 as a 
 With states facing drastic short-falls, schools are being starved of essential funding. Now, even FEMA is cutting them loose, refusing to help pay for basic health and safety needs in schools, like cleaning supplies, plexiglass dividers, and masks, and sparking concern from state, city, and county leaders nationwide. There must be no confusion on this matter.

 ensuring that necessary steps required to safely reopen and operate schools during this pandemic qualify as "emergency protective measures" and are therefore fully eligible for federal assistance.

The School Superintendents Association and the Association of Educational Service Agencies have estimated that K-12 education requires at least $200 billion in emergency funding. This includes costs like meeting new health and safety protocols, providing remote learning technology, addressing emotional and mental health needs, and ensuring high quality learning, whether remotely or in-person, during this pandemic.

, as part of a comprehensive relief package for working families, small businesses, and states and local governments. Additional support will be necessary for four-year colleges and universities, community colleges, and HBCUs, MSIs, and TSIs.
