







"Biden also agreed to answer later by mail a series of questions on U.S. Civil Service and military job discrimination which Robert Vane, a gay activist, presented him. Vane a North Star resident, startled Biden with his sudden queries and sent at least three persons storming from the room when he identified his cause. 'My gut reaction,' Biden told Vane, 'is that they [homosexuals] are security risks but I must admit I havent' given this much thought...I'll be darned!'" (Hugh Cutler, "Gay Activist Gets Biden's 'Gut Reaction,'" 
, 9/25/73)






 (S.Amdt. 39 To S. 1, 
, 76-23, 2/18/93, Biden Voted Yea)

"Vote on Senator Don Nickles' (R-OK) amendment to codify the Department of Health and Human Services' prohibition of the permanent immigration of HIV+ individuals. The amendment passed by a vote of 76-23: R 42-1, D 34-22. HRCF opposed this amendment." ("Senate Votes Of The 103rd Congress," 
, Accessed 6/18/20; "Senate Voting Records – 103rd Congress," 
, Accessed 6/18/20)




 "Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., Delaware Democrat, said he was ambivalent on the issue but ultimately sided against Mr. Clinton. 'One side of me says just let the public health officials make the decision, and both Republican and Democratic officials have agreed on it [to drop the ban],' he said. 'But it seems to me the policy is bigger than whether HIV should be on the list or off the list.'" (Carol Innerst, "Senate Passes HIV Ban – Clinton Opposed Immigration Rule," 
2/19/93)



(Conference Report To H.R. 2401, 
: Passed 77-22-1; R: 26-18; D: 51-4-1, 11/17/93, Biden Voted Yea)

 
 "14,500 US service personnel have been thrown out of military service since the DADT policy took effect, according to the non-profit watchdog and lobby group, the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network." (Karen McVeigh and Paul Harris, "US Military Lifts Ban On Openly Gay Troops," 
 9/20/11)



(S.Amdt. 2434 to S.Amdt. 2433 to S. 1513, 
: Passed 63-36-1; R: 40-3-1; D: 23-33, 8/1/94; Biden Voted Yea)





 "But Vicky Morelli, a board member of the gay rights group Delaware Pride, said the delegation runs the gamut. 'Biden has usually been pro-gay about 80 percent of the time,' she said. 'Roth has been against us about 90 percent of the time. Castle has sort of flip-flopped. 'None of them have come out as incredibly outspoken one way or the other – which could be a good thing,' she said. 'But it makes them hard to pin down on certain things.' They're all good enough politicians that they know not to make hateful comments against gays, yet not to fight so vigorously for gay rights that alienate voters, she said." (Carl Weiser, "GOP Attacks Gays; Del. Lawmakers Stay Quiet On Issues," 
 7/26/98)








"Defense of Marriage Act - Amends the Federal judicial code to provide that no State, territory, or possession of the United States or Indian tribe shall be required to give effect to any marriage between persons of the same sex under the laws of any other such jurisdiction or to any right or claim arising from such relationship. Establishes a Federal definition of: (1) 'marriage' as only a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife; and (2) 'spouse' as only a person of the opposite sex who is a husband or wife." (H.R. 3396, 
, Passed 85-14, 9/10/96)

"The measure defined marriage as between a man and a woman and allowed states not to recognize same-sex marriages. Same-sex couples could not claim federal benefits. Biden was one of 85 senators to vote in favor." (Jon Greenberg, "Progressive Democratic Group's Attack On Joe Biden's Voting Record Needs Some Context," 
, 4/26/19)



(Erin Kelly, "Amendment Unnecessary, Delaware Senators Say," 
 2/26/04)





JOHN ROBERTS: "So -- s, are you more against the amendment itself or the timing of it?" SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I'm against the timing of it. Look, marriage is between a man and a woman. Tell me why that has to be put in the Constitution now? We already have a federal law that has not been challenged. No one's declared it unconstitutional. It's the law of the land, saying marriage is between a man and a woman." (CNN's "
," 6/5/06)










TIM RUSSERT: "The president used his radio address yesterday, and tomorrow in the Rose Garden, to talk about a constitutional amendment to ban gay marriage." SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "You know, think about this. The world's going to Hades in a handbasket. We are desperately concerned about the circumstance relating to avian flu—we don't have enough vaccines, we don't have enough police officers—and we're going to debate, the next three weeks, I'm told, gay marriage, a flag amendment, and God only knows what else. I can't believe the American people can't see through this. We already have a law, the Defense of Marriage Act. We've all voted—not, where I've voted, and others have said, look, marriage is between a man and a woman and states must respect that. Nobody's violated that law, there's been no challenge to that law. Why do we need a constitutional amendment? Marriage is between a man and a woman." (NBC's 
 6/4/06)








QUESTION: "I have to ask you this because it does affect me and my family directly. But if, in the next five years, if you're president, do you see gay marriage in the future?" SENATOR JOE BIDEN (D-DE): "I don't. Here's what I do see. I see an absolute guarantee of civil union with the exact same rights. Now, here's the dilemma. Here's the dilemma. The truth of the matter is states have made legal, through licensing, the performance of marriage what religions have essentially consecrated. That's how they view it." (Kimberly Schwandt, "In His Own Words: Vice President Biden's Evolving View On Gay Marriage," 
, 12/24/10)

 "'In an Obama-Biden administration, there will be absolutely no distinction from a constitutional standpoint or a legal standpoint between a same-sex and a heterosexual couple,' said Biden, referring to his Democratic partner, Barack Obama. Asked if he would support gay marriage, Biden said: 'No. Barack Obama nor I support redefining from a civil side what constitutes marriage.'" (Andy Sullivan, "Palin, Biden Agree On Gay Rights At Debate," 
, 10/2/08)







. JOE BIDEN: "And I was the first major leader holding public office to call for same sex marriage. So I don't know what about the past of Barack Obama and Joe Biden was so bad." (Joe Biden, 
, Manchester, NH, 2/7/20)






JOE BIDEN: "And by the way, I might add, I'm the first person to go on national television in any administration and say I supported gay marriage. I supported gay marriage when asked. And so it started a ripple effect. I'm not taking all credit for it, but I'm the first major player to say I support gay marriage on national television." (Joe Biden, 
, Washington, DC, 3/15/20)








"Dick Cheney spoke out in support of gay marriage and rights during the 2000 vice presidential debate, breaking with his running mate George W. Bush and earning the support of the progressive Human Rights Campaign. 'The historical record is clear,' PolitiFact wrote. 'Cheney spoke out in favor of gay marriage during the 2000 vice presidential debate, saying, 'freedom means freedom for everybody... I think we ought to do everything we can to tolerate and accommodate whatever kind of relationships people want to enter into.' He said any 'official sanction' of same-sex relationships should be left to states -- not the federal government.'" (Greg Re, "'Security Risks?' Biden's Past Rhetoric On Gay Rights Could Complicate LGBT Claims On Campaign Trail," 
, 6/26/20)






 "Beyond Cheney, many Democrats also supported gay marriage before Biden. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., opposed DOMA in 1996, when 14 senators voted against the legislation. Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., supported gay marriage in 2011, and Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., also came out for gay marriage in 2009. A slew of other local officials, including then-San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom, also backed gay marriage before Biden." (Greg Re, "'Security Risks?' Biden's Past Rhetoric On Gay Rights Could Complicate LGBT Claims On Campaign Trail," 
, 6/26/20)

"U.S. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan became the first sitting cabinet secretary to announce support for marriage equality, saying on Nov. 15 that he 'absolutely' supports marriage equality in an exclusive interview with Metro Weekly. ... He talked about how the [New York gay marriage] law's passage had affected those around him, saying, 'So many friends that I know were able to achieve a dream the day that law passed. And so many neighbors. It made me proud to be a New Yorker – not enough to get me to move back. We've got more work to do in the Obama administration in a second term.' Asked if that included marriage equality, Donovan confirmed it did, saying, 'Like marriage equality.'" (Chris Geidner, "HUD Secretary Supports Marriage Equality," 
, 11/15/11)



"The White House would not comment on whether Mr. Obama was ready to endorse same-sex marriage. But one Democratic strategist close to the White House, speaking only on the condition of anonymity, said some senior advisers 'are looking at the tactics of how this might be done if the president chose to do it.' ... And Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who is gay, said in an interview that a top adviser to Mr. Obama, whom he would not name, asked him this year, 'What would be the effect if he came out for same-sex marriage?' 'My own view is that I look at President Obama's record, he was probably inclined to think that same-sex marriage was legitimate, but as a candidate for president in 2008 that would have been an unwise thing to say,' Mr. Frank said. 'And I don't mean that he's being hypocritical. I mean that if you live in a democratic society, it is a mix of what you think the voters want and what you think is doable.'" (Sheryl Gay Stolberg, "Obama's Views On Gay Marriage 'Evolving,'" 
¸6/18/11)



 "Despite his record, in several presidential debates this year, Biden questionably claimed that he was the first major political leader to support gay marriage when he unexpectedly broke with Obama during a 2012 interview with 'Meet the Press.' At the time, Obama said he was 'evolving' and wrestling with the issue, and top Obama administration officials immediately sought to walk back Biden's comments in the interview -- including through written statements and tweets. 'Chaos ... erupted inside the West Wing after an e-mailed transcript of the interview landed in the in-box of the White House press team,' according to an insider account by investigative reporter Jo Becker." (Greg Re, "'Security Risks?' Biden's Past Rhetoric On Gay Rights Could Complicate LGBT Claims On Campaign Trail," 
, 6/26/20)

 "Biden's office, however, would tell NBC's Chuck Todd, shortly after the 'Meet the Press' interview concluded, that he was speaking on his own and not on behalf of the administration. UPDATE: A spokesperson for the vice president further clarified the 'Meet the Press' remarks, stating in part that Biden had not fully endorsed same-sex marriage. 'The vice president was saying what the president has said previously – that committed and loving same-sex couples deserve the same rights and protections enjoyed by all Americans, and that we oppose any effort to rollback those rights. That's why we stopped defending the constitutionality of section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act in legal challenges and support legislation to repeal it. Beyond that, the Vice President was expressing that he too is evolving on the issue, after meeting so many committed couples and families in this country.' Biden never explicitly said that he backed marriage equality, but he implied it. The follow-up comments tamping down expectations and reports, from both the vice president's office and Axelrod, underscore just how tricky that implication remains." (Sam Stein, "Joe Biden Tells 'Meet The Press' He's 'Comfortable' With Marriage Equality," 
, 5/6/12)