







(Press Release, "Fraternal Order Of Police Endorses Trump For President," 
, 9/4/20; Lisa Donovan, "Chicago Police Union Endorses President Trump's Reelection Bid," 
, 9/9/20; Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," 
, 9/3/20; Press Release, "Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorses Donald Trump For President," 
, 9/3/20; Press Release, "NTC Endorses President Donald J. Trump For Re-Election," 
, 8/31/20; Press Release, "Council 82 Endorses Donald Trump For President," 
," 8/25/20; Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," 
, 8/23/20; "About NBPC," 
, Accessed 9/6/20; Press Release, "Statewide Law Enforcement Unions Unite Against Anti-Cop Bills," 
; Uriel J. Garcia, "Arizona Police Group Will Meet With Mike Pence Tuesday," 
, [Phoenix, AZ], 8/11/20; Joshua Nelson, "Largest Florida Police Union Backs President Trump: 'Tired Of Being A Punching Bag,'" 
, 7/31/20; Press Release, "Police Officers Association Of Michigan Selects Chief Skotarczyk As The Statewide Police Chief Of The Year," 
, 4/27/10; NAPO, 
, 7/15/20; Press Release, "The International Union Of Police Associations Formally Endorses The Campaign For The Re-Election Of President Donald J. Trump," 
, Accessed 9/6/20)



 "'During his first four years, President Trump has made it crystal clear that he has our backs,' Yoes said. 'Our members know that he listens to the concerns of our brothers and sisters in uniform and is able to make tough decisions on the issues most important to law enforcement. President Trump is committed to keeping our communities and families safe.'" (Press Release, "Fraternal Order Of Police Endorses Trump For President," 
, 9/4/20)





"Chicago's police union, like its umbrella organization the national Fraternal Order of Police, has endorsed Republican President Donald Trump's reelection bid, potentially helping to boost his pro-cop, law-and-order message... Catanzara was among those who attended Trump's controversial speech on the White House lawn where he accepted the GOP's nomination for a second term, which punctuated the four-day Republican National Convention. And the FOP boss said that he'd gladly stump for the president in Chicago. 'I will do whatever I can for him — clearly,' Catanzara told the Tribune. 'I hope he makes a somewhat local appearance — that he doesn't think Illinois is a lost cause and will just kind of mail it in.'" (Lisa Donovan, "Chicago Police Union Endorses President Trump's Reelection Bid," 
, 9/9/20)





 "The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) endorsed President Trump's reelection Wednesday, praising his 'steadfast and very public support' for law enforcement. NAPO did not endorse a candidate in the 2016 election but endorsed former President Barack Obama and then-Vice President Joe Biden in both the 2008 and 2012 elections. NAPO President Michael McHale said Trump's support is needed 'during this time of unfair and inaccurate opprobrium being directed at our members by so many.' 'We particularly value your directing the Attorney General to aggressively prosecute those who attack our officers,' McHale wrote in a letter." (Morgan Phillips, "National Association Of Police Organizations Endorses Trump, After Backing Biden As VP In '08, '12," 
, 7/15/20)

 "President Trump has done more for Law Enforcement in the past two and a half years than was accomplished in the eight years that preceded his election. He has even undone some of the harmful acts of his predecessor." (Press Release, "The International Union Of Police Associations Formally Endorses The Campaign For The Re-Election Of President Donald J. Trump," 
, 9/10/19)

"Southern States Police Benevolent Association, Inc. (SSPBA) announced today that it is endorsing Donald Trump for President in the 2020 election. SSPBA board members and representatives met with Vice President Mike Pence in Raleigh today to announce the endorsement. SSPBA is composed of over 60,000 law enforcement officer members throughout the Southeast. 'With the stakes as high as they are for the law enforcement profession today, we felt that we must speak up in support of the true law enforcement candidates,' said Chris Skinner, SSPBA president. 'President Trump has been unwavering in his support of law enforcement,' President Skinner continued." (Press Release, "Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorses Donald Trump For President," 
, 9/3/20)





"This letter is to officially announce our endorsement for your re-election as President of the United States. During these uncertain times, your strong and unique leadership is necessary to ensure the safety of law enforcement and the communities we serve throughout the United States. We are grateful for your continued support for law and order and your unwavering stance against those who attack the very men and women that are willing to give their lives to protect others. It is that support which has resonated with our membership." (Press Release, "NTC Endorses President Donald J. Trump For Re-Election," 
, 8/31/20)

"The President has consistently pushed back against the false narratives being promulgated against our law enforcement officers. He has never been quick to second guess police procedures and has worked hard with the Department of Justice to ensure investigations are fair and non-partisan." (Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," 
, 9/3/20)

"In order to maintain our fundamental right to live in a society that is both free and safe, Americans need to elect the one candidate for president who is committed to making our country safe and secure. For the 30,000 men and women in the Florida Police Benevolent Association, the choice for us could not be clearer. President Donald J. Trump has never once wavered from his support of law enforcement officers, especially as we are faced with these unprecedented challenges. President Trump's commitment to preserving law and order in America is our country's last great hope to live in the kind of society where our communities thrive and our families prosper." (John Kazanjian, Op-Ed, "Florida's Largest Police Union: Re-Elect President Donald Trump To Keep America Safe," 
 [Fort Lauderdale, FL], 7/31/20)

 PATRICK LYNCH: "I have 36 years on this job, 21 as the president of this fine organization. I cannot remember when we've ever endorsed for the office of President of the United States until now. That's how important this is. Mr. President— Mr. President, we're fighting for our lives out there. We don't want this to spread to the rest of the country. We need your strong voice across the country to say we have to support law enforcement across this country. Now many times people say that a union like ours, law enforcement groups give endorsements, not in the New York City PBA, sir. In the New York City PBA, Mr. president, you earned the endorsement and you've earned this endorsement I'm proud to give it." (Patrick Lynch, Remarks At Endorsement Ceremony For President Trump, [Bedminster, NJ], 8/14/20)






"On Tuesday, President Donald Trump and his supporters braved the excessive desert heat during his trip to Yuma to pick up the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council. It was the President's fourth trip to Arizona this year and the union's second endorsement of Trump. The President touted his administration's efforts to enhance border security and improve trade deals." ("Trump Visits Yuma, Picks Up Endorsement Of National Border Patrol Council," 
, 8/18/20)

"Justin Harris, the president of the Arizona Police Association, spoke about the organization's endorsement of the Trump campaign, arguing that a 'horrendous spike in violent crimes' had come because of 'foolish talk' about defunding police departments. Although based in Arizona, Harris focused his ire on incidents in Chicago, Seattle and New York, decrying calls to 'abolish the police or calls to defund the police. Law enforcement is under attack,' Harris said. 'Look no further than places like Seattle, New York, Chicago Los Angeles,' Harris said, adding that in Seattle, city officials proposed a 50 percent cut in the Seattle Police Department's budget, and a $1 billion cut to New York's police. 'It is clear who the law and order candidate for president is: President Donald J Trump,' Harris said. 'These liberal socialist elected officials have essentially told their constituents that law and order important is no longer a priority.' 'The inmates are running the asylum,' Harris said." (Paul Ingram, "Pence Calls Biden A Choice For 'Radical Left' In Tucson Visit," 
, 8/13/20)

 "The Police Officers Association of Michigan endorsed President Donald Trump's re-election in a statement Thursday as a debate over law enforcement strategies plays out on the national stage. 'President Trump never fails to recognize our homeland's security personnel at home and abroad,' said the labor organization's president, James Tignanelli, in a statement. 'He supports the police while the previous administration preferred to insult them or to find them guilty without due process.' The statement added, 'At a time when civic leaders are choosing to tolerate televised felonies because a group of people are 'offended,' we need real leadership.'" (Craig Mauger, "Police Officers Association Of Michigan Endorses Trump," 
 7/13/20)

"'Donald Trump has our back. President Trump has supported us when so many people have turned against us,' NYS Troopers PBA president Thomas Mungeer told the Post on the eve of the Republican National Convention." (Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," 
, 8/23/20)

"The New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82, AFSCME, AFL-CIO (Council 82) endorses Donald J. Trump in his campaign for re-election as President fo the United States. In a letter to President Trump dated August 25, 2020, Council 82 recognized President Trump's strong and unwavering support for law enforcement officers, his accomplishments and achievements in his first term, and his commitment to law and order and the rule of law. We're honored to endorse President Trump. He is proud to stand with us, and we're proud to stand with him. He is 100% committed to providing law enforcement with the resources and backing to ensure our safety and the safety of all our citizens." ("New York Law Enforcement Officers Union Endorses Donald Trump For President," 
, 8/25/20)



 MICHAEL MCHALE: "The violence and bloodshed we are seeing in these and other cities isn't happening by chance. It's the direct result of refusing to allow law enforcement to protect our communities. Joe Biden has turned his candidacy over to the far left, anti-law enforcement radicals, and as a senator, Kamala Harris pushed to further restrict police, cut their training, and make our American communities and streets even more dangerous than they already are. Conversely, President Trump supports the creation of a national standard for training on de-escalation and communication to give officers more tools to resolve conflict without violence. The differences between Trump-Pence and Biden-Harris are crystal clear. Your choices are the most pro-law enforcement President we've ever had or the most radical anti-police ticket in history. We invite those who value the safety of their family and loved ones to join the hundreds of thousands of members of the National Association of Police Organizations and support the re-election of President Donald J. Trump. Thank you and God bless America." (Michael McHale, Remarks At The RNC Presidential Convention, [Washington, DC], 8/26/20)






 "Most importantly, President Trump has committed to providing law enforcement with the equipment, personnel, and training that we need to protect our communities across the state of Texas, and across the country. By comparison, Joe Biden is not capable of making any kind of commitment to law and order. Those he has surrounded himself with are the loudest voices calling for defunding police across the United States. Biden has made snap judgements about specific situations involving law enforcement without benefit of the facts, simply to score political points. We do not believe Biden has a coherent picture of the current state of law enforcement in Texas, or across America." (Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," 
, 9/3/20)

 PATRICK LYNCH: "Unlike the Democrats who are running in fear of the mob in the street, President Trump has never apologized for supporting police officers and standing up for law and order. Unlike the Democrats who froze in the face of rioting and looting, President Trump matches his words with his actions. He gives law enforcement the support and the tools we need to go out there and put a stop to it, period, end of story. It's never been harder to be a police officer in this country, but there are two things that keep us going. We look at the victims, the vulnerable, the regular working people who count on us. We keep strapping on our duty belts and bullet resistant vests because we know we can't let them down. And while we do that, we hear the words of our president who says to police officers everywhere, 'I will never let you down.' We know that he hasn't, and we know that he won't. We've been fortunate to have him in office these past four years and we know that we cannot afford to lose him. When it comes to your safety, your family's safety, and the safety of all Americans, there's no other choice. You won't be safe in Joe Biden's America. We can have four more years of President Trump or you can have no safety, no justice, and no peace." (Patrick Lynch, Remarks At The RNC Presidential Convention, [Washington, DC], 8/27/20)






 BRANDON JUDD: "Year in and year out, the American public has said that they want secured borders, it's always in the top five of the issues the candidates have to deal with and going into this election candidates are going to have to talk about that. Joe Biden has failed when he was the Vice President, he failed at that time, and if you look at the successes that President Trump has had on the border, you have to check that box and say he is the candidate that is going to do the most to secure our borders and secure our communities." FOX NEWS' JILLIAN MELE: "If you we go ahead and pull this graphic here that lays out the Biden-Harris immigration plan if they are to be elected. At the very top you can see: 'modernizing America's immigration system.' Brandon, what would that look like?" JUDD: "The first thing that you would have to say is, are they going to be willing to deport the individuals that are coming to the country illegally and the answer to that is no, they are not. They're going to put a moratorium on deportations for the first 100 days of his presidency. That's going to be a magnet that is going to invite people to cross the border illegally, to escape into our communities knowing that they're going to be safe once they get pass the border. That's a recipe for disaster and is going to put an awful lot of pressure on our border patrol agents." (FOX NEWS' "Fox & Friends First," 8/19/20)






 JUSTIN HARRIS: "We all know this notion of abolish or defund the police is not just unrealistic, it's outright irresponsible and dangerous. It's not only dangerous for the police officers who serve in our communities every day but it's more importantly dangerous to the members in our community — the most vulnerable members in our community who can't defend themselves, they turn to the police, they trust us, they love us, and they need us, and we need them. Just look at the horrendous spike in violent crime just since this foolish talk started. It is clear who the law and order candidate for president is, President Donald J. Trump. Thank you. President Donald J. Trump has fought off the liberal media, he stood strong, and has had an unwavering support and commitment to the rule of law and to the men and women who place their lives every on the line every day to keep communities safe, we know he has our back, we have his back." (Justin Harris, Remarks At Cops For Trump Event, [Tucson, AZ], 8/11/20)






"'Donald Trump has our back. President Trump has supported us when so many people have turned against us,' NYS Troopers PBA president Thomas Mungeer told the Post on the eve of the Republican National Convention. 'Joe Biden supported cops in the past but he's turned his back on us,' said Mungeer, referring to the former vice president and Democratic presidential nominee who is taking on Trump in the Nov. 3 general election." (Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," 
, 8/23/20)









 "His opponents, on the other hand, appear to hate our Country and have without a doubt turned their backs on law enforcement – accusing us of being racist, supporting those who would defund, dismantle, and abolish police departments, never condemning the anarchists, rioters, and looters who are burning down and destroying our cities and businesses and attacking our officers and our fellow citizens. His opponents, through hateful and reckless rhetoric, are encoursing unrest and violence and stoking division and chaos in this Country – all for political purposes, for our families, and for our Nation. Council 82 supports President Trump's re-election, and we pledge to support him every step of the way." (Press Release, "Council 82 Endorses Donald Trump For President," 
," 8/25/20)