Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from Las Vegas under a clear blue sky.

After an early COVID-19 test, the pool drove to Trump International Hotel.

The motorcade left the golden tower at 11:15am.

Pool could not see POTUS.

First stop of the day: the nearby Treasure Island Hotel where POTUS will participate in a roundtable with supporters then a roundtable with the "Latinos for Trump coalition". 


At 12:41pm, pool was ushered in a room at the Treasure Island Hotel for the "Latinos for Trump" roundtable.

Ten participants were seated with POTUS around U-shape table.

The event is open press.

Will send highlights. 


POTUS spoke for about ten minutes before asking people around the table to say a few words.

Key quotes below:

COVID-19
"We are rounding the corner on COVID. We are rounding it rapidly, plus we have vaccines coming very soon."

Hispanics
"We are very high and leading with Latinos."
"I have achieved more for Hispanic Americans in 47 months than Joe Biden in 47 years."
"Hispanics embody the American Dream."

Wildfires
"Again, forest management, I keep telling them."

Biden
"He hasn't left (his house) in two and a half days."
"The thing with Biden is he is not a strong person."
"When you see a scene like that happening last night in California. A woman, a man, shot at stone-cold range through a window. We are looking for that person and when we find that person, we are going to get much faster with our courts and we have to get much tougher with our sentencing."

Please check against transcript.
Roundtable ongoing. 


POTUS ended the roundtable at 1:18pm without taking any questions.

Pool holding in vans. 


After a short drive through Vegas, the motorcade arrived at Trump Hotel at 1:28pm.

We have a lunch lid until 4pm. 


Sharing this from Trump campaign regarding tonight's rally in Henderson, Nevada, which will be indoors.

Tim Murtaugh
"If you can join tens of thousands of people protesting in the streets, gamble in a casino, or burn down small businesses in riots, you can gather peacefully under the 1st Amendment to hear from the President of the United States."

On background:
Every attendee will get a temperature check prior to admission, be provided a mask they're encouraged to wear, and have access to plenty of hand sanitizer. 


The motorcade departed Trump International Hotel at 5:31pm.

Pool did not see POTUS. 


After an uneventful 25-minute drive, the motorcade arrived Xtreme Manufacturing in Henderson, NV.

Pool entered a large hangar with scissor lifts and fork lifts scattered all over the place. Two large Make America Great Again signs on both sides of the stage.

The place was packed. No social distancing. Many people not wearing masks.

Soundtrack at the moment: Billy Joel's Piano Man.

Waiting for POTUS who is supposed to take the stage at 7pm. 


POTUS started speaking at 7:10pm.

The event is open press. 


POTUS wrapped up his remarks after a 65-minute speech, notably shorter that the one yesterday in Minden.

Motorcade rolling. 


The motorcade arrived at Trump International Hotel at 8:50 pm.

Your pooler has asked the Trump campaign how many people attended the indoor rally in Henderson. No answer so far.

We have a travel/photo lid.

Have a good evening. 