

"Look what [Trump's] tax cut did. The multi-billion dollar, trillion-dollar tax cut that went mainly to the very wealthy and to corporate America."

Similar claims from 
 have been 
; President Trump's tax cuts benefitted Americans at every income level, and are delivering important benefits for American families and workers.

: "Why did [Trump] insist that the 44 people we had [in China], while I and others are insisting that they go in and have access to see really what is happening, to know the detail. Why did he not insist on that?"

: The Trump Administration first tried to get American officials into China in early January; Biden didn't call for sending experts into China until 
, 50 days later

"... what we did in terms of taking a significant portion of the Navy – 60 percent – and getting it into Asia to make sure [China] could not control those sea lanes, which they were doing. What has Trump done? He's done nothing about it."

 Unlike Biden, who has failed to stand up to China, President Trump has taken a strong stance against Chinese aggression in the South China Sea

"Remember, [Trump] didn't – he wasn't the one that pushed [USMCA]. The House amended the bill."

This is President Trump's USMCA, not Nancy Pelosi's.

"And he calls them losers? He calls them suckers?"

At least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in 
 article:

Additionally, 
reporting has been refuted by 
 and 
 that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne cemetery in 2018.

"[Trump] won't put on a mask. He's talking about, it's ridiculous to put on masks."

President Trump has strongly advocated that Americans wear masks, and he has worn one himself many times.

"We had firm, firm constraints on what [North Korea] could buy and what they could sell in their economies. He's blown it."

President Trump has not lifted sanctions on North Korea
