President Trump chooses multinational corporate interests over American workers again and again. He promised a major infrastructure plan and policies to end outsourcing and bring jobs back to the United States. Instead, he created a tax loophole that actually rewards companies for shipping jobs and profits overseas. While Trump talks about Buy American on Twitter and TV, he's allowed companies receiving federal contracts – paid for with taxpayer dollars – to offshore at higher rates.

President Trump talks and talks - but he has failed to deliver results for American workers.

That ends under the Biden-Harris administration. As part of their plan to Build Back Better, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are announcing 
 to ensure the future is Made in America by all of America's workers.

Biden and Harris will fix our tax code so that it promotes a "Made in America" future, establishing a 
 and a 
, and 
.

Biden will sign a series of 
 in his first week as President to ensure the federal government is delivering on its obligation to 
.



The Trump Corporate Giveaway Tax plan, passed in 2017, gave the largest tax cut ever to major multinational companies with no requirement that they invest in America or hire American workers. It gave American companies new incentives and created loopholes that allowed them to get a major tax cut – or even avoid all US taxes – by moving production and profits overseas, including for goods that are sold back into the United States. It is no wonder that:

 Joe Biden will fight for American workers and pursue a series of tax reforms to stop outsourcing and promote the return of manufacturing to America's shores.



The Trump tax giveaway is upside down and backwards. We should be penalizing offshoring – not rewarding it. We should be giving incentives to those who hire American workers and Make it in America – not using our tax code to put these U.S. job creators at a competitive disadvantage behind those who choose to offshore and outsource jobs.



 
 


Joe Biden believes that when we use U.S. taxpayer dollars to provide incentives for US companies, those dollars should encourage good-paying job creation in the United States, not give windfalls to well-off investors or CEOs or Wall Street.

The Biden-Harris tax policy, therefore, will not only 
 the offshoring of American jobs, it will 
 those who invest and create jobs here in America. That is why Joe Biden will reverse Trump's historic corporate giveaway and offshoring loopholes and devote a portion of those funds to reward those who hire American and invest in America.

. It will be available for the following purposes:

 


Rather than put American jobs and American workers first, Trump created a permanent tax giveaway for companies that offshore U.S. jobs and profits. Under Trump's new pro-offshoring tax system, an American company making cars or parts or household appliances in the United States pays full US taxes on any profits they make. Yet, a company that moves jobs and production overseas and then exports those products back to the US 
.

Trump created three major offshoring loopholes in his 2017 tax plan.

 These Trump offshoring loopholes mean if you manufacture products in Michigan or Wisconsin or Ohio you must pay full taxes, but if a competitor moves jobs and production overseas and shifts those profits to tax havens, they can avoid some or all US taxes and have a competitive advantage over those making it in America and hiring in America.

For example, under Trump's new offshoring loopholes, a company sending jobs to a low or zero-tax location could pay nothing on the first ten percent of their foreign income and pay only half the US rate on the remainder of their foreign income. Even if that same company shifted jobs to a higher-tax jurisdiction, under Trump's offshoring loopholes they can use those operations to shield income that company has parked in tax havens - so that their overall profits from offshoring are only a fraction of what they would have been if the company had located those jobs in the United States.



 


Biden starts with a pretty basic idea – when we spend taxpayer money, we should buy American products and support American jobs. Almost 90 years ago, Congress passed the Buy American Act to advance this basic idea. But we have never fully lived up to it. And, while President Trump talks about Buy American, his actions have made matters worse – more loopholes, more offshoring by federal contractors, more taxpayer dollars going to foreign firms. Joe Biden will sign a series of executive actions that:

. President Biden will issue an executive order using the full extent of these powers to direct federal procurement to abide by Buy American rules and ensure critical goods are produced at home when America needs them.

. Biden will issue an executive order to ensure American steel, aluminum, and other critical materials are used across federal-funded American infrastructure products while eliminating current loopholes in implementation of the Buy America Act that covers public transportation projects.

Biden will direct federal agencies to review and alter price adjustment rules that have let foreign goods beat out American products under Trump's procurement processes.

 President Biden will expand the list of critical materials to protect American supply chains and end unfair foreign competition in American procurement. Biden will also make sure that the list of designated "non-available materials" that are not subject to Buy American only in circumstances of absolutely infeasibility, and will review and close existing loopholes that have undermined these policies under Trump.

For example, a company selling deployment bags to active-duty troops falsely claimed its products were Made in America, when in reality they came from China. And when an American competitor filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission, the Trump Administration imposed no penalties

 This office will manage American procurement policy to ensure compliance with Buy American rules. It will review all potential Buy American waivers to ensure compliance with the Biden Administration's objectives to protect American jobs, and it will establish a transparent, public record of any and all waivers to Buy American rules. The mission of the office will be to create more high-paying American jobs through procurement policy.



Trump has talked a big game on ending offshoring, strengthening Buy American rules, and supporting American jobs. But like so many of his promises, he has failed to deliver for American workers. He picks multinational corporate interests over American workers every time. Under President Trump's failed leadership, good-paying American jobs have continued to go overseas. The manufacturing sector 
 under Trump's watch, 
. And, his Buy American promises are still just empty words. In fact, on Trump's watch, some of the biggest corporations receiving billions in Trump federal contracts and Trump tax giveaways have been the most aggressive about 
.



 




 


 


 

