Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House

POTUS is travelling to Louisiana and Texas today. In-town pool will hoover up any other detail. 


POTUS is motorcading to JBA. In-town pool will have no visibility on departure. Handing on to travel pool, who will have you covered from here. 


White House called a travel/photo lid at 21:22. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Motorcade pulled out of West Executive Avenue at 10:33 am, en route Joint Base Andrews for trip to Lake Charles, La., and Orange, Texas. POTUS will "survey storm damage and receive briefings on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts," per tweet yesterday by Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere.

Pool was preloaded into vans, did not lay eyes on POTUS.

It's raining - remnants of Hurricane Laura.

Travel pool was covid tested earlier this morning. 


Motorcade arrived tarmac at JBA at 10:57 am. Drive was uneventful. 


Potus boarded AF1 as print pool was walking toward plane. Photog saw him ascending steps, reports he was carrying red MAGA hat and umbrella. At 11:09 we are rolling for takeoff to Chennault International Airport in Lake Charles, La.

Per Judd Deere, who came back for quit visit with pool, as we roll - on board:

Acting DHS secy Chad Wolf
Mike johnson, congressman from Louisiana
Hope Hicks
Mark Meadows

We are in big AF1. 


AF1 landed Chennault International Airport in Lake Charles, La., at 12:19 pm Central time.

As we were landing, we could see scenes of debris, blue tarps on houses, foundations where houses might have been, trailer park with jumbled trailers. 


Potus emerged from AF1 at 12:40 pm local time

Chatted with greeters at bottom of stairs for a few minutes.

Greeters, including GOP Sen. John Kennedy of LA and LA Dem Gov. John Bel Edwards, all wearing masks. Also among 6 greeters: Rep. Clay Higgins, AG Jeff Landry.

Potus wearing Red hat that says USA on front, Trump on back. Black windbreaker, tan pants. No mask. Rep Mike Johnson standing next to potus, also no mask.

Potus then turned toward the pool, mouthed "thank you", gave us a thumbs up, and got into beast.

Motorcade rolling for destination at 12:47. 


Motorcade arrived destination at 1:05 pm

At 1:06 Potus walked in to warehouse to applause. Steve the business owner greeted Potus. Hard to hear what's being said. 


We visited Warehouse being used for Cajun Navy relief supplies.

Building built in 1948, "this is the worst destruction it's had," said host.

Trump participated in a group prayer during the visit. A local person led the prayer.

Potus got a quick tour, motorcade rolling again at 1:14. 


Motorcade arrived 1:23, Potus led on tour of neighborhood by Gov Edwards, fema director Pete Gaynor, others. Giant fallen tree is being cut up by what appear to be national guard members. Chad Wolf is also with the group.

Location: Near downtown Lake Charles, cross streets are Division and Louisiana, near interstate.

Color from last stop: As we were departing, supporters waving trump flags and American flags stood on the road (where motorcade made a u turn to get headed in the right direction).

Next stop was a brisk walk away: fire station in Fire District 1 for a briefing from first responders, local leaders, FEMA personnel. 


Briefing with first responders, local leaders, FEMA/DHS officials, LA political leaders. Potus walked in at 1:41 to applause from assembled officials.

Red haz mat unit truck from Lake Charles Fire Department served as backdrop for the officials. He sat in center w/microphone and presidential seal before him.

Potus spoke: I appreciate everyone being here.
He asks: what's the percentage of people who have insurance? Gov Edwards: about 50 percent.

Potus: it's a tremendous state for me. I love the people. ... it was a tremendously powerful storm.... Almost a 5.

Only one official at table is wearing a mask.

Potus/ We have to take care of Louisiana, we have to take care of Texas.

Trump introduces Rep Steve Scalise, others here, engages in conversation with each as he introduces. It's hard to hear, in the cavernous echo-y Fire House.

Potus asks about impact of people getting used to having air conditioning.

Potus: we'll supply what we have to supply.

Reading from notes: Laura was a category 4, a little while a 5. Heard it was strongest storm here in 150 years.

Thanked pastor at Cajun Navy, who delivered prayer. Says FEMA has delivered 2.6 million liters of water delivered, x million meals.

Spoke of assisting state and local officials.

"Our hearts go out to families who lost loved ones."

Potus on law enforcement: They don't get the respect they do. But actually they do. Because people love them.

Notes this week is 15th anni of Hurricane Katrina. "You came together and you rebuilt."

Gov Edwards speaks, but is hard to hear from where press is standing, about 100 feet away.

Potus calls on Sen Kennedy to speak. Again, hard to hear.

Steve Scalise speaks about faith based groups.

Gaynor talks about disasterassistance.Gov To register for assistance w Hurricane Laura

Q from press: how is storm affecting spread of virus.

Potus/ we are doing very well

Gov: we are still doing 10k tests a day.

Q Why isn't epa turning on air monitors?
Gov answers, hard to hear

Q: big storms more frequent due to climate change?

Potus: ..... who knows?
John Kennedy: this thing is 600 miles wide. Imagine 9 feet of water coming thru. ... Katrina was bad because levies broke. But This was as bad as I've ever seen folks.

Potus ends meeting at 2:11, press leaves

Please check quotes against transcript.

Motorcade rolling at 2:17 pm local time. 


Motorcade arrived Cougar Stadium at 2:20. Maybe 200 uniformed National Guard are standing at attention, in formation. Trump greets them.

back in Motorcade at 2:24, rolling. 


>From WH, re earlier briefing at fire station:

Today, President Donald J. Trump will receive a briefing on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts in Lake Charles, Louisiana.



 President Donald J. Trump

 Acting Secretary Chad Wolf,
Administrator Pete Gaynor, 


 Senator John Kennedy, 
 Congressman Steve Scalise, 
 Congressman Ralph Abraham,
 Congressman Garret Graves,
 Congressman Clay Higgins, 
 Congressman Mike Johnson,


 Governor John Bel Edwards, 
 Attorney General Jeff Landry,
 State Senator Mark Abraham, 
 Mayor Michael Danahay, 
 Mayor Bob Hardey, 
 Mayor Nic Hunter, 
 Director Dick Gremillion,
 Director James Waskom, 
 Sheriff Tony Mancuso,
 Sheriff Ron Johnson, 
 Tony Guillory, 
 


Motorcade arrived Chennault airport in Lake Charles at 2:42 pm. From here, we go to Orange, Texas, in Ospreys. 


Pool did not see Potus get into separate helicopter. Press Osprey lifted off at 2:50 pm en route Orange TX. 


Pool Osprey helicopter landed ahead of Potus. Pool watched as the helo carrying POTUS landed at Orange County Tx airport landing zone at 3:09 pm.

A car carrying Texas Gov. Greg Abbott drove onto the tarmac, he got into his wheelchair and headed to POTUS's copter. Potus emerged from the copter at 3:13 and went straight to Abbott. Potus gave him a triumphal fist wave. The two chatted for a few minutes.

Motorcade rolling at 3:19 pm. 


Motorcade arrived 3:40 pm at Orange County convention and expo center. Pool was led to the emergency operations center.

Potus and governor entered they a different door, and got a briefing. Potus was Introduced to public information officer and half-jokes to press, you want to ask her anything?

"You do much better with the media than I do," he said to the PIO, Lori.

Potus gets tour of the center. Photos of destruction from the storm are mounted on poster board.

Potus thanks everyone for their efforts.

Pool is led out about 3:50 and is holding in a nearby room.

Earlier: As we drove away from Orange TX landing zone, route was lined with cheering and waving well-wishers, lots of families, many Trump signs and American flags. 
At 4pm central, White House began streaming live, probably easier to hear from live stream than in the room itself.

Potus is at head of table. Acting DHS secretary Chad Wolf to his left. Gov Abbott to his right.

More TK
From WH:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will visit Texas to receive a briefing on emergency operations and ongoing relief efforts.



President Donald J. Trump

Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, 
Administrator Pete Gaynor, 
Tony Robinson, 


Senator John Cornyn, 
Senator Ted Cruz, 
Congressman Randy Weber, 
Congressman Brian Babin, 


Governor Greg Abbott, 
Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick, 
Attorney General Ken Paxton, 
Mayor Larry Spears, 
Mayor Becky Ames, 
W. Nim Kidd, 
Judge John Gothia, 
Sheriff Lane Mooney, 
Joel Ardoin, 


Last things first: Potus took press questions at end of briefing/

Will you visit Kenosha? "Probably so."

Re shooter in Kenosha, Kyle Rittenhouse, who killed two people: "we are looking at it very very Carefully."

Why is DNI not looking into election security?
Meadows: "the last time they gave briefings, they went out and talked to the press."

Potus slammed "shifty Schiff" and leakers on the committee.

Q Re Laura, climate change: "we handle em as they come"

Earlier in round table:

Gov. Abbott talked about the response to the hurricane. He says he believes the state has gotten thru hurricane Laura without spreading Covid-19.

Ted Cruz takes off his Texas state flag-design mask to speak. Praises assistance on hurricane. He says "Texas could have been hit a lot worse." "We are now stepping up to help our neighbors in Louisiana." Talks about how Texas, unfortunately, has disaster expertise.

Others thank President for all he has done to help Texas.

A majority of those around the table are wearing masks, as are most officials and guests sitting along the walls.

Potus invites governor to wrap things up. "You are helping Texas to rebuild."

Briefing ended 4:30

At 4:33 Potus came outside to greet national guard and other first responders.

Pool led away at 4:35. 


Motorcade left the Orange County expo and convention center at 4:40 pm. En route Orange County Landing zone for chopper back to Lake Charles LA. 


Motorcade arrived Orange County TX airport landing zone at 4:58 pm.

Just a quick observation: Orange Texas looks a whole lot better off than Lake Charles, La. In Orange, signs are blown out, trees are down here and there, telephone polls leaning over. But Lake Charles has some serious rebuilding ahead - damage to a lot of homes and businesses, which I'm not seeing in Orange. 


Pool lifted off in Osprey helicopter from Orange TX at 5:04 pm Central, landed at Chennault airport in Lake Charles, La., at 5:24.

Potus' copter landed a couple minutes later. Potus emerged at 5:30, walked slowly toward the pool, pointed at us, but didn't stop to chat. He veered right and up into AF1.

We are now rolling for imminent takeoff to JBA. 


Per Judd Deere, Potus will go to Kenosha, Wisc., on Tuesday. He will meet with law enforcement and survey damage from recent riots. 


AF1 landed JBA 8:41 pm eastern. Only visit to press cabin on return trip was from Judd Deere. 


Potus descended steps of AF1 at 8:48, he waved to pool, got into beast. Motorcade rolling at 8:51. 