Pool Reports by 
, 




Pool is awaiting departure to Trump International Hotel, where POTUS will attend a fundraiser expected to raise $10 million.

He will then travel to FEMA HQ for a Hurricane Laura briefing before returning to the WH, where the schedule is free until his convention speech from the South Lawn.

Pool received a Covid test at call time.

>From the Republican National Committee:

"The roundtable fundraiser this afternoon will raise $10 million for Trump Victory. The event site is professionally cleaned and sanitized prior to the event. The White House Medical Unit and U.S. Secret Service will evaluate all attendees in order for them to gain access to the event. All attendees will test negative for COVID-19 on the day of the event, complete a wellness questionnaire, and pass a temperature screening." 


Motorcade left WH at 12:36 p.m. and arrived at Trump International Hotel at 12:39 p.m.

Pool will hold in van while POTUS participates in fundraiser.

Saw Kayleigh McEnany leave one of the SUVs and head inside.

>From the Republican National Committee:

"The roundtable fundraiser this afternoon will raise $10 million for Trump Victory. The event site is professionally cleaned and sanitized prior to the event. The White House Medical Unit and U.S. Secret Service will evaluate all attendees in order for them to gain access to the event. All attendees will test negative for COVID-19 on the day of the event, complete a wellness questionnaire, and pass a temperature screening." 


Motorcade departed Trump hotel at 1:46 p.m. and now headed to FEMA HQ. 


Motorcade arrived at FEMA HQ at 1:50 p.m. 


FEMA HQ:

POTUS: All Americans are thinking of people in affected states. "It went very deep into the country."

While initial reports not as bad as predicted "still learning" about damage. FEMA is responding, have spoken with governors.

Will be "very aggressive" in getting things back.

Chad Wolf now speaking. 


POTUS, arms folded at front of table, was given overview of the storm, from landfall to present. Large video screen showed the path.

FEMA Administrator Gaynor showed slides of other responders, calling it a "whole of government" approach.

Team showed pictures from the field, showing buildings with roofs ripped off and bricks from a building spilled on a street, downed trees, a fire in Lake Charles.

"It's amazing," POTUS said.

Gaynor urged people to stay safe and don't go out unless necessary. "Stay home and pay attention to the warnings...please don't go out sightseeing."

Warned debris may contain live electrical wires.

POTUS said VPOTUS did a great job last night and deserved to speak now.

"This was a serious storm," Pence said. "We were ready for the worst. ... it was not as bad as it could have been."

VPOTUS said grieve the loss of a young girl.

VPOTUS thanked responders.

Eric Trump was standing off in the side of the room. 


"We'll be going Saturday or Sunday," POTUS says of damaged areas. Said he considered postponing speech tonight but won't have to.

Asked about Wisconsin, POTUS said National Guard did a good job, could increase force if needed. "We will put out the fire. We will put out the flame" and vandalism.

"We will stop the violence very quickly." 


POTUS continues talking about tamping down protests.

On NBA protest, "I don't know much about the NBA protest" but says NBA ratings are bad and it's become political.

Defended holding speech tonight, touting economy. "We're doing very well. We're coming back." Says some areas remain closed for "political reasons."

Open up states, schools. "Let them play football. It's got to open up."

He doesn't answer if he's seen video of Jacob Blake and we are being led out at 2:25 p.m. 


More complete quote on NBA:

Jeff Mason asked for response to NBA protest in light of another police shooting of a black man.

POTUS:

"I don't know much about the NBA protest. I know their ratings have been very bad because I think people are a little tired of the NBA...They've become like a political organization, and that's not a good thing." 


Motorcade left FEMA HQ at 2:31 p.m. and returned to WH at 2:37 p.m. 


A lunch lid has been called until 5 p.m. 


Q: Will you visit Gulf Coast and when?

POTUS:

"Very shortly. .... In fact, I was actually prepared to postpone the speech tonight and make it on Monday. I was going to Texas, I was going to Louisiana, maybe Arkansas. Looks like Arkansas- I just spoke to the governor- it's going to be in pretty good shape. But they'll need some help."

"Now it turned out we got a little bit lucky. It was very big. It was very powerful but it passed quickly...We'll probably be going on Saturday or Sunday. We'll be heading to Texas and Louisiana, and maybe an additional stop." 


Pool earlier today asked Trump campaign for detail on covid measures and got the response below, which doesn't specify the protocols and screening or refer to testing or masks. Will pass along any updates.

>From the campaign:

"Patronus Medical, a leading medical, safety, and health company, has worked in partnership with the Republican National Committee to make certain proper protocols are in place to ensure the safety and well-being of individuals at convention venues.

"These strict protocols are in full compliance with multiple guidelines set forth by the United States Centers for Disease Control, the District of Columbia Department of Public Health, and other leading authorities on health safety.

"Patronus health professionals have been on site to make certain screening has been done on a consistent basis to ensure the convention meets the highest standards of public safety." - Robert G. Darling, MD, FACEP, FFSEM, Former White House Physician to President Clinton, and Chief Medical Officer at Patronus Medical Corp

Additional Background:
 Both the White House and Washington, DC have hosted additional large gatherings including the July 4
. Celebration at the WH and this weekend's March on Washington. 


Dinner lid called until 7:30 p.m. 


The press corps has assembled on the South Lawn and will remain for the duration, per WH aide.

I'm seeking specifics on guests but rows upon rows of white folding chairs are on the lawn, a bottle of water with a red elephant logo on the seat. The chairs are inches apart. Most of the spectators are not wearing masks, though Trump branded ones can been seen on some.

It's currently 90 degrees. 


As await more on crowd, am told there are roughly 1,500 spectators, and most Republican members of Congress were invited.

If not obvious this is a major production, with multiple speaker arrays, and camera sweeping over the lawn. A man is in the balcony singing. 
[
] 


A travel/photo lid has been called. 