

Americans tuning in to the third night of the Republican convention didn't see a 
, 
, or people talking about 
.

Instead, they saw a 
 and 
 and 
. They also heard from real Americans – people who aren't part of the Washington political class and people who are better off today because of President Trump's leadership and accomplishments.

Here are 
 from real Americans at last night's Republican convention:

 isa civil rights hero who participated in the 1960 Greensboro Woolworth lunch counter sit-in. "America isn't perfect. We're always improving. But the great thing about this country is that it's not where you come from, it's where you're going. I was born on what some would call the wrong side of the tracks. I don't even have a birth certificate. I never attended an integrated school and am the only one out of my immediate family who graduated from college – an HBCU. I'm a military veteran and a civil rights activist," Henderson said. "And you know what else? I'm a Republican. And I support Donald Trump."

 is the head of an organization representing loggers and truckers in Minnesota. "Logging is the most dangerous job in the country, but we embrace that risk because we know America was built by strong people building things together," 
. "America needs us to keep building and we can't wait to be a part of it. But the last time Joe Biden was in the White House, Minnesota lost nearly half of its mills, thousands of jobs, and experienced nearly a decade of decline... The administration just didn't seem to care."

 spoke about her son Samuel, who was born with Down Syndrome, and how she fought to make sure he received a good education. "I knew my baby was a human being created by God and that made him worthy of life. I am thankful that President Trump values the life of the unborn," 
. "Unlike the doctor who told me to end Samuel's life before it even began, President Trump did not dismiss my son, he showed Samuel he valued him and was proud of what he accomplished. President Trump gave Samuel an equal seat at the table."

 is a 30-year veteran of law enforcement in Florida and president of the National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO). "Good officers need to know their elected leaders and the department brass have their backs. Unfortunately, chaos results when failed officials in cities like Portland, Minneapolis, Chicago, and New York make the conscious decision not to support law enforcement. Shootings, murders, looting and rioting occur unabated," 
. "The violence and bloodshed we are seeing in these and other cities isn't happening by chance; it's the direct result of refusing to allow law enforcement to protect our communities."

spoke about the recent murder of his beloved wife Jackie outside their home. "Every time I open the garage door and stand in the driveway, I hear that horn, I see her slumped in the seat. When I go to bed at night, that sound and image haunt me. That's my life sentence. It's a sentence being served by too many families left behind by senseless killings," 
. "It is a sad irony that Jackie immigrated to the U.S. for a better life than her native Colombia, only to be gunned down in her own driveway. For eight months there were no arrests, no leads in connection with Jackie's murder. The Albuquerque police were overwhelmed, they needed help. Help arrived when President Trump launched Operation Legend in July of this year."



"I think America needs to stay as America. I'm very upset with everything that's going on in this country and I've been a registered Democrat for many years and this is, I'm done, I'm ready, I need a change," 
. "I am so tired of the crime here. I am tired of what's going on here... I think everybody in the United States feels the same way that I feel."

"I've been in the Democratic Party for a long time and see the way that the direction of the country is headed," 
. "I want America to stay a place that is free, that is pro-business, that is less regulation, that stands for freedom, that stands for defense of our nation, and I see it going a different way with Joe Biden."

"The Democrats seem to be fighting for corporations and more money for themselves. God bless Donald Trump," 
. "I used to be a Democrat, I didn't vote for Donald Trump in 2016 but after they attacked him so brutally, I said, they're not even giving him a chance. And he's fighting for America every day. I've switched completely, I'm now Republican, voting Republican all the way. No more Democrat for me."

"I'm living in the suburbs of Chicago and I'm extremely disturbed at what's going on in the city. I feel like the city is totally lost, along with the state, it's really disappointing," 
. "I really have no idea who even votes for Democrats anymore. I think they're just a huge disappointment."

"As a Democrat my whole life, I have voted for Trump last time around, and I will vote for him again this time," 
. "It's the violence that the Democrats are allowing to happen in their cities. In Oregon it's just a disaster. President Trump offered to help them out and they refused. I wish that they didn't fight the president so hard on everything he tries to do."