

Americans tuning in to the second night of the Republican convention didn't see a 
, self-described socialists, or people talking about 
.

Instead, 
, and heard from real Americans – people who aren't part of the Washington political class and people who are better off today because of President Trump's leadership and accomplishments.

Here are 
 from real Americans at last night's Republican convention:

, a lifelong Democrat and the mayor of a Minnesota town, explained why he supports President Trump. "For far too long, members of both parties allowed our country to be ripped off by our trading partners, especially China," 
. "And what did so-called leaders like Joe Biden do? Nothing. The human cost has been devastating. We lost thousands of jobs, we lost a generation of young people who had to leave the Iron Range to find a livelihood. And worst of all, we lost hope."

, a dairy farmer from Wisconsin, said, "As a businessman, President Trump understands that farming is a complicated, capital-intensive, and risky business. More than any president in my lifetime, he has acknowledged the importance of farmers and agriculture. That support and focus on negotiating new trade deals gave us the confidence to rebuild our barn and dairy operation. Business was booming again, and business boomed right until the COVID-19 shutdown in March."

, an eighth-generation lobster fisherman from Maine, said, "I have to confess: I didn't support Trump in 2016. Skeptical that he shared my conservative views, I expected him to flip-flop on his campaign promises. But he has followed through on his promises, including last week when he brokered a deal to end European Union tariffs of 8% on Maine live lobsters and up to 20% on Maine lobster products, which is great news for Maine's lobstermen and women."

was 
. He gave his life to Christ and became a new person, founding an organization to minister to others and help them successfully re-enter society. 
, describing his story as "a beautiful testament to the power of redemption."

, the owner of Schuette Metals, a second generation metal fabrication business in Wisconsin, told his story. "Six years ago, we invested heavily in our business just as the great recession appeared. Barack Obama and Joe Biden -- two career politicians who know nothing about business -- couldn't get the government out of our way, and it put our business in a tailspin... We scratched and we clawed for two years and then everything changed. Donald Trump was elected president, and he knew what it was like to build a company and create jobs. One of the first things he did was to cut red tape and put an end to draconian type banking regulations. He also cut taxes on small businesses, allowing us to be more competitive both domestically and internationally. In fact, we increased revenues by 25 percent, for two years in a row."


