Trump has failed to deliver results for Black communities since Day One of his Administration. His failure to control COVID-19 has hurt Black Americans even more, leaving the community bearing the disproportionate brunt of COVID infections, deaths, and job loss. And, Trump's failure to get the virus under control has worsened the economic crisis. It didn't have to be this bad, and Black families are paying the price with their lives and livelihoods. Trump has:

Trump didn't have a plan to address COVID-19 and still doesn't today. It didn't have to be this bad — particularly for Black Americans and other people of color, who are disproportionately getting sick. Black unemployment hit 
, and the unemployment gap between Black and White Americans 
 further last month. And, Trump 
 the delivery of assistance to small businesses, 
 in particular.

Obamacare has saved the lives of countless Black Americans, increasing the number of insured by millions and prohibiting insurers from denying coverage due to pre-existing conditions like asthma, cancer, and diabetes. Now, Trump is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to strike down that landmark law, leaving millions without coverage in the middle of a deadly pandemic.

. Trump has watered down key wage and workplace protections. He promised to 
 a $15 minimum wage, and 
 a tip-pooling rule that would've let employers pay many non-tipped workers even less than today. He let 
 break laws requiring them to give workers of color a fair shot, and tried to let companies hide the truth when they don't pay Black workers 
. And, Trump has done just as badly by Black entrepreneurs: he tried to 
 for and even 
 the federal agency that's wholly dedicated to developing minority-owned businesses. 
 have reaped the benefits of Trump's Opportunity Zones, while communities of color they're supposed to help have been left behind.

Trump is trying to make it 
 to fight housing discrimination and easier for lenders to 
 communities of color. He 
 the Obama-era Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule, which fought racial bias in housing. He 
 called for 
 to affordable housing programs, slamming Black families, which have 
 homeownership rates and are more likely to be low-income renters. And, Trump called for 
 
 to subsidized housing and voucher programs, and for changes that would 
 rents for low-income families.

Trump and Betsy DeVos 
 rules designed to protect students of color from racial bias in school discipline. They did away with measures meant to 
 or 
. And, Trump 
 his promise to help students manage crippling college loans, leaving Black Americans three times more likely to default on that debt.



For too long, Black Americans have lived with a knee on their neck. Joe Biden knows they'll never have a fair shot at the American Dream, so long as entrenched disparities are allowed to quietly chip away at opportunity. With Senator Kamala Harris, he will rebuild our economy in a way that finally brings everyone along—and that starts by rooting out systemic racism from our laws, policies, institutions, and hearts. Highlights of Joe's 
 include:

 The typical white family holds 
 ten times more wealth than the typical Black family. Joe's 
 will close the racial wealth gap, opportunity gap, and jobs gap. He will create millions of good-paying jobs, increase the minimum wage to $15 an hour, end paycheck discrimination, provide affordable child care for families, and 
 in new capital and opportunities in economically disadvantaged areas, especially for Black owned small businesses and other small businesses that have been structurally excluded for generations. Because homeownership is key to building wealth, he'll create a $15,000 down-payment tax credit for first-time home buyers. And Joe will set a goal that disadvantaged communities - including many Black communities - receive 40% of the overall benefits of his spending on infrastructure and clean energy.

 Black Americans are 
 at a higher rate than whites, shedding light on the long-standing, pervasive disparities across our health care system. Joe will protect and build on Obamacare to ensure access to high-quality, affordable care beyond the crisis, including by providing Black Americans with a new health insurance option - a public option. He'll also ensure Black communities have clean air to breathe and water to drink, and healthy foods to eat.

Joe will eliminate the funding gap between white and non-white districts, improve teacher diversity, and provide high-quality, universal preschool for all three and four-year-olds. He will 
 in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Serving Institutions to lower students' costs, establish research centers, build high-tech labs, and more. Joe will also ensure Black Americans can attend community college without debt and make public colleges and universities tuition-free for families earning under $125,000 (including 
 of Black families). And he'll relieve student debt, especially key for Black students who hold more debt and are three times more likely to default on loans than white borrowers. He'll forgive undergraduate tuition-related federal student debt from public colleges and private HBCUs and MSIs for Americans earning up to $125,000.

 Joe will outlaw choke holds, create a model use of force standard and a national police oversight commission, and push police departments to review their hiring, training, and de-escalation practices. He'll expand and use the authority of the Justice Department, created by legislation he authored, to address systemic misconduct in police departments and prosecutors' offices. He'll also invest in public defenders' offices, eliminate the death penalty and mandatory minimums, and end cash bail and private prisons. He'll decriminalize the use of cannabis and automatically expunge all cannabis use convictions, and end incarceration for drug use alone.