

Americans tuning in to the first night of the Republican convention didn't see 
, supporters of 
, or people talking about 
.

Instead, they 
, and heard from real Americans – people who aren't part of the Washington political class and people who are better off today because of President Trump's leadership and accomplishments.

Here are 
 from real Americans at last night's Republican convention:

, a Cuban immigrant whose 
, said, "the country I was born in is gone – totally destroyed. When I watch the news in Seattle and Chicago, Portland and other cities, when I see the history being rewritten, when I hear the promises—I hear echoes of the former life I never wanted to hear again. I see shadows I thought I had outrun."

, a lifelong Democrat in Georgia, delivered a defiant message to his party leaders: "I have news for Joe Biden: We are free. We are free people with free minds. And I'm part of a large and growing segment of the Black community who are independent thinkers. And we believe that Donald Trump is the President that America needs to lead us forward."

, a father who lost his daughter in the Parkland school shooting, recounted his interactions with President Trump. "Then the President did what he said he said he would do: he took action. He formed a School Safety Commission that issued dozens of recommendations to make schools safer. But I'll bet you never heard about that. Instead, the media turned my daughter's murder into a coordinated attack on President Trump, Republicans, and our Second Amendment."

, whose life was saved by President Trump's Right to Try law, spoke about the coronavirus and asked viewers to "imagine what 2020 would've looked like, fighting for your life, without Donald Trump fighting for it too. In January, there would have been no China travel ban. Millions would've died. Millions more would've been infected—for there'd be no record levels of testing. No right-to-try treatments. No Fast Track for a vaccine, nor Operation Warp Speed ready to deliver it."

, a friend of Donald Trump's for 37 years, spoke to the kind of person he is. "I watched him treat the janitors, security guards, and waiters the same way he would treat a VIP. He made them feel special because he knew they were. He understands that they are the people who make this country run. They clean. They cook. They build. They drive. They deliver. He told me, 'Herschel, make an effort to get to know people. Remember their names.' That stuck with me."

In addition to these fellow Americans, the first night of the convention featured President Trump 
 and 
 who were held in foreign countries but were 
.