

Americans tuning in to the final night of the Republican convention didn't see a 
, 
, or people talking about 
.

Instead, they saw a party honoring America and heard from real Americans – people who aren't part of the Washington political class and people who are better off today because of President Trump's leadership and accomplishments.

Here are 
 from real Americans at last night's Republican convention:

was serving life in prison for a nonviolent drug offense 
. President Trump commuted her sentence in 2018. "I was once told that the only way I would ever be reunited with my family would be as a corpse," 
. "But by the grace of God, and the compassion of President Donald John Trump, I stand before you tonight—and I assure you, I'm not a ghost! I am alive, I am well, and most importantly, I am free."

is the widow of former police captain David Dorn, who was cruelly murdered by violent criminals during the St. Louis riots. "Dave was all about service. He served 38 years in the St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department and six years as Chief of Police at the Moline Acres Police Department," 
. "David is never, never coming back to me. He was murdered by people who didn't know, and just didn't care. He would have done anything to help them."

is a single mother of 2 boys who works as a warehouse receiving clerk in Texas. "After serving my country in the Marine Corps, I worked various jobs, but thought I needed a degree in order to have a career," 
. "I put myself into significant debt to earn my bachelor's degree in finance. Despite my degree and all of my efforts, at one point my boys and I even found ourselves homeless. After being laid off yet again, I received an email from the Texas Workforce Commission about S&B's Women in Construction Earn-While-You-Learn apprenticeship program. I thought I'd give it a try... At the start of the program, I was making $16 an hour while I trained to become a pipefitter helper. Looking back, it wasn't easy, but boy was it worth it. I felt empowered that I was learning new skills and able to support my family again. I worked hard, got promoted, and even got a few raises!"

 is the president of the Police Benevolent Association, which represents 50,000 active and retired police officers. "The Democrats have walked away from us. They have walked away from police officers and they've walked away from the innocent people we protect. Democratic politicians have surrendered our streets and our institutions," 
. "The loudest voices have taken control, and our so-called 'leaders' are scrambling to catch up to them. In city after city, they have slashed police budgets. They have hijacked and dismantled the criminal justice system. They have passed laws that made it impossible for police officers to do our job effectively."

owns a small manufacturing business in Wisconsin and struggled during Joe Biden's time in office. "When we lost nearly 50% of our business to China in the mid-2000s, we wondered how a small company like ours could continue to compete. At the time, Joe Biden was a senator," 
. "He voted to normalize trade with China and helped pave the way for them to join the WTO, even though they were hurting American companies like ours."



"I was on the fence but now I'm going towards Trump. I'm definitely gonna go towards Trump," said 
.

"He's bringing the morals back. He's bringing God back," said Rosie, 
. "I am very proud to vote for President Trump. I am proud to be pro-life and he being the most pro-life president."

"I'm a longtime Democrat, born and raised," said 
. "After watching tonight ... I have made up my mind. I am definitely gonna vote for Donald Trump."