President Trump's mismanagement of the pandemic has wiped out years of jobs gains for women, launching us into a she-cession with millions of women unemployed and worried about whether they will be able to feed their families and return to work. The pandemic has disproportionately impacted women of color and young women, with 
 and 
 unemployed and many women forced to work fewer hours than they need or would like. Even before the pandemic, President Trump has relentlessly worked against women's interests. He has:

In the middle of a pandemic, Trump is asking the U.S. Supreme Court to strike down Obamacare, which would allow insurers to deny women coverage because of pregnancy or pre-existing conditions like cancer or diabetes, choose not to cover maternity care, stop young adults under 26 from staying on their parents' plan, charge co-pays for recommended preventive services including contraception and mammograms, and charge women higher premiums just for being women -- a practice which cost women
 more than men annually. And, he has prevented organizations like Planned Parenthood from receiving Title X federal family planning funds.

Trump revoked the 
executive order, which required that federal contractors comply with labor, wage and hour, family and medical leave, safety and health, civil rights, and other laws. He said women would make the same as men if they "
" defended employers who pay 
 and called pregnancy an "
" for employers, and has taken steps backwards on closing the gender pay gap. The Obama-Biden Administration 
 to collect and disclose compensation information by race, gender, and ethnicity to the federal government so it had better insight into pay disparities and could better target enforcement. 
 only continued to collect this data at the order 
, and has announced its intent to 
 for future years.

The Trump Administration's Education Department — led by Betsy Devos — has rolled back Obama-Biden policies and given colleges a green light to ignore sexual violence and strip survivors of their civil rights under Title IX. Trump and DeVos have let colleges off the hook for protecting students by permitting them to choose to investigate only more extreme acts of violence and harassment and requiring them to investigate in a way that dissuades survivors from coming forward.

The Obama-Biden Administration created the 
 to make sure the federal government was doing its best to tackle issues like equal pay, paid family leave, and poverty in an effective manner. The Trump Administration then 
 and put nothing in its place.




Women, and particularly women of color, have never had a fair shot to get ahead in this country. When Joe Biden and Kamala Harris build our country back better after this economic crisis — a crisis worsened by President Trump's failure to get the virus under control — they will ensure we get closer to full inclusion of and equality for women. Highlights of 
 include:

Biden will create a White House Council on Gender Equality, chaired by a senior member of the White House tasked solely with guiding and coordinating government policy that impacts women and girls, such as economic policy, health care, racial justice, gender-based violence, and foreign policy.

 Joe will create millions of good paying jobs, pass the Paycheck Fairness Act and take other steps to achieve equal pay, take on workplace discrimination and harassment, and support women entrepreneurs.

Joe stood with President Obama to pass Obamacare, which gave 
. Joe will protect and build on Obamacare to expand access and lower costs, including by offering all women the choice of a new public option. He'll reduce the unacceptably high maternal mortality rate, which disproportionately affects Black and Native women, and he'll ensure all women have access to the full scope of health care — including reproductive health care.

Joe has taken care of aging parents, and he's been a single parent — he knows how hard it is to raise a family. As President, he will provide universal access to high quality preschool for all
 and ensure no low-income or middle class family with children under age 5 has to pay more than 7% of their income for child care. He will also enact legislation to provide 12 weeks paid family and medical leave, and require employers to provide up to seven days of paid sick, family, and safe leave.

Women, and primarily Black women, hold 
 of the nation's student debt. Joe will provide access to community college without debt, make public colleges and universities tuition-free for families earning under $125,000, invest over $70 billion in HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions, and double Pell. He'll also strengthen Public Service Loan Forgiveness and forgive undergraduate tuition-related federal student debt from public colleges for people earning up to $125,000.

A driving force in Joe's career has been fighting back against abuses of power. It motivated him to author the Violence Against Women Act of 1994. Joe will keep getting things done for survivors of gender-based violence, starting by reauthorizing VAWA, keeping guns out of the hands of abusers, and expanding the safety net for survivors.

Joe will be unflinching in confronting systemic racism, including by investing in trauma-informed prevention and treatment programs and services as alternatives to girls - disproportionately girls of color - being placed in detention.