Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon,
Your print pooler has checked in and been tested for COVID.
The only event on the President's public schedule today is his address tonight to a joint session of Congress.
A lunch/dinner lid until 7:30 PM.
The presidential motorcade departed from the South Lawn driveway at 8:30 p.m. ET, and we are rolling to the Capitol.
Pooler did not see POTUS depart the White House.
Motorcade came to a stop at the South side of the Capitol at 8:40 pm ET after rolling south on 17th St. NW before heading east on Independence Ave. SW.
Police had the streets for tonight's route blocked off to traffic. A handful of onlookers on foot, including apparent National Guard members in uniform, could be seen watching the motorcade pass. At least three Guard members saluted the motorcade as it passed.
Pooler did not see POTUS depart The Beast or enter the Capitol. We are holding in vans.
Per the WH,
Before the address to a Joint Session of Congress, the President and the First Lady will greet with:
Lt Gen. Karen Gibson, Senate Sergeant at Arms
Maj. Gen. William Walker, House Sergeant at Arms
Brett Blanton, Architect of the Capitol (Editor’s note: Pool report #3 subject line should have indicated that the motorcade had arrived at the Capitol. Apologies.)
More info from the WH:
The President will participate in a photo line with the Escort Committee.
POTUS began speaking at 9:07 pm ET, per livestream.
Pool is not in the chamber, we are holding at the vans.
POTUS finished speaking at 10:11pm ET, per livestream.
Per WH:
After the address to a Joint Session of Congress, the President and the First Lady will participate in a photoline with 23 employees of the U.S. Capitol.
The motorcade departed from the east side of the Capitol at 10:37pmET, and we are en route to the White House.
Motorcade arrived at the South Lawn driveway and came to a stop at 10:44pmET, after driving west on Independence Ave NW then north onto 17th St.
Police closed off streets to traffic. As motorcade turned onto Independence Ave SW, a line of about a half dozen National Guard members stood at attention.
Pool didn't see POTUS on either end of the drive.
A lid was called upon arrival.
Have a good night, all.