Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews on this beautiful Saturday morning. Travel pool is swept, COVID-tested, and loaded into an Osprey before takeoff to Delaware Air National Guard base at New Castle. With any luck, we will get to see Marine One land at DANG after its separate path from the Ellipse.
M1 landed at Delaware Air National Guard base in New Castle at 11:02 am.
Potus and FLOTUS stepped out of helo at 11:07 am, straight into the Beast. FLOTUS, in white blazer and black pants, waved to pool.
No Potus comments to pool.
Motorcade rolling to residence at 11:09.
From White House press:
Upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base, the President was greeted by Col. David Rice, Vice Wing Commander of the 166th Airlift Wing, Delaware Air National Guard
Uneventful drive to Biden residence, arrival at 11:22, pool bus peeled off.
A few neighbors w kids waved at motorcade as we drove by.
Lunch lid called till 1 pm.
Also, thank you to Kyle Mazza of WUNF News for sharing pictures of Potus waving in motorcade near residence:
Credit: Kyle Mazza | UNF NEWS
Lunch lid has been extended until 2 pm.
Lunch lid extended to 2:30--
Pool has been re-swept at intersection near the residence, and joined the Biden motorcade, now en route undisclosed destination.
At 4:07, motorcade arrived St. Joseph on the Brandywine, the Catholic church Potus regularly attends.
Pool cameras caught sight of Potus entering, will find out who he is with.
Pool is holding on the sidewalk near the cemetery.
Potus exited the church at 4:56 pm with a woman we believe is his sister, Valerie. Will try to confirm. At one point, as POTUS was visiting with others outside the church door, he gave the woman a brotherly hug.
We are rolling at 5:00
Motorcade arrived Biden residence at 5:05. Press bus peeled off, returning to hotel.
Travel/photo lid was called at 5:19 pm.
WH confirms that the woman accompanying POTUS as he left the church was his younger sister, Valerie Biden Owens.
Enjoy the evening!