Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning all. I'll be your print pooler for President Biden's trip to Philadelphia today and subsequent stay in Wilmington. He's scheduled to depart JBA at 12:25pm. The White House passes along the following —
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 April 30, 2021
 Background for the President's Visit to Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania's infrastructure received a C- grade on its Infrastructure Report Card. Toplines on the need for the American Jobs Plan in Pennsylvania include:
The American Families Plan (AFP) is an investment in Pennsylvania's children and families. Toplines on the need for the American Families Plan in Pennsylvania include:
In total, Pennsylvania will receive the following American Rescue Plan (ARP) funding:
· $7.4 billion in state fiscal relief and $4.9 billion in local fiscal relief.
· More than $5.1 billion in relief for K-12 schools.
· Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 8.1 million adults and 2.8 million children (or 86% of all adults and 84% of all children in the state).
· Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 2,368,000 children, lifting 140,000 children out of poverty.
· Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit.
· Credit to 700,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
· Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1402 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.
As of April 28, the Biden-Harris Administration has made vaccine available in over 1,600 pharmacies across the state, with over 1,100 receiving deliveries in the past week. Participating stores are primarily Rite Aid, CVS, Topco, and Walmart locations but span multiple other pharmacy partners.
The Biden-Harris Administration has invited 46 health centers in Pennsylvania to receive direct vaccine allocations, spanning 30 cities. The centers combined have sites at over 300 different care delivery locations across the state. As of April 28, 37,700 doses have been delivered to Community Health Centers in Pennsylvania through the federal vaccinations program.
 As of April 26, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $212 million to the state to support vaccination operations. There are 13 federally-supported community vaccination centers in the state, including one FEMA Pilot site at the Pennsylvania Convention Center. There are over 375 federal personnel currently deployed to the state to support vaccination operations, in addition to over 430 federally-funded National Guard members currently supporting the COVID-19 response.
The motorcade arrived and came to a stop at 12:57pm. POTUS and FLOTUS stepped out a minute later. FLOTUS chatted briefly with a woman whose identity your pooler has inquired about. They stepped aboard AF1 at 12:59pm. Bruce Reed was also spotted boarding AF1.
We are on board and readying for takeoff.
The gaggle with press secretary Jen Psaki is going to be streamed at 
 so please listen there. It's supposed to begin shortly after we takeoff.
We are taxiing for takeoff en route to Philadelphia International Airport. --
White House sends the following along —
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady were greeted by:
We are wheels down in Philadelphia at 1:36pm. --
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 1:49pm. FLOTUS gave POTUS a hug before getting into a different car. We are rolling now to the speech venue. --
We came to a stop for several minutes after initially rolling at the airport. The White Hosue sends the following along — pool held in the vans as this took place and did not get eyes on the photo line. We are now rolling again.
From the White House —
Upon arrival at the airport, the President participated in a photo line with the following:
Governor Tom Wolf (D-PA)
Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon (D-PA-5)
Congresswoman Chrissy Houlahan (D-PA-6)
Congresswoman Madeleine Dean (D-PA-4)
Congresswoman Susan Wild (D-PA-07)
State Senator Vincent Hughes (D-Philadelphia)
State Senator Sharif Street (D-Philadelphia)
State Representative Jason Dawkins (D-Philadelphia-PA)
State Representative Jordan Harris (D-Philadelphia-PA)
City Commissioner Lisa Deeley (D-Philadelphia-PA)
City Councilwoman Cherelle Parker (D-Philadelphia)
Reverend Dr. Alyn E. Waller, Senior Pastor of the Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church
David Cohen, Senior Advisor to the CEO, Comcast Corporation
Patrick Eiding, President, Philadelphia AFL-CIO
Bob Brady, former Congressman
From the Press Secretary:
The motorcade arrived at the venue at 2:26pm. We are set up outdoors on top of rail road tracks, surrounded by stationary Amtrak trains. A lectern is set up between the train tracks with signage that says "Getting America back on track/50 Amtrak/The future rides with us." POTUS is due to deliver remarks soon marking the 50th anniversary of Amtrak. They will be streamed but I will send additional color.--
White House passes along the following. The event is starting, we are hearing audio about Amtrak.
Upon arrival to the station, the President participated in a photo line with the following:
Two minute warning on President Biden's remarks. --
President Biden, wearing a blue cap, began speaking at 2:54pm. He walked out with his granddaughters, who are seated off to the side in the front.
White House sends this along —
The President is joined today by Amtrak CEO William J. Flynn and Amtrak Conductor Blake Weaver. Granddaughters Maisy and Finnegan Biden walked out with the President.
Other audience members in attendance:
POTUS ended his remarks at 3:10pm. He walked over and chatted with some of the guests before walking away with his nieces. It was quite windy during his remarks.
We are loading back into the vans now.
My previous report mistakenly said that POTUS walked away with his nieces, but it should have said granddaughters. Your pooler regrets the error.
We are still holding in vans.
We are rolling as of 3:32pm.
As we rolled out of Philadelphia, a significant number of people lined the streets to watch the motorcade. A few held up signs. Your pooler caught a glimpse of signs reading "#FreeTheVaccine" and "Defund the Pentagon."
The motorcade pulled up to the Biden residence in Wilmington just before 4:15pm. Your pooler did not see POTUS. We are now turning back en route to the Westin, where pool is staying overnight.
We have a travel/photo lid. Many thanks to co-pooler Zolan Kanno-Youngs of the NYT. We'll be back with you all tomorrow. Have a wonderful evening.