Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool has been swept and is holding near the Biden residence in Greenville, outside Wilmington. There is nothing on his schedule before departure, set for 8:25 pm, back to the White House. However, it is a fine Sunday, so you may not have trouble guessing probable movements.
At 12:50 pm POTUS motorcade is rolling from residence.
At 12:55 pm POTUS arrived at St Joseph on the Brandywine, the Catholic church where he regularly attends Mass. Pool did not see him going in and is holding just across from the cemetery.
White House tells pool that the president is attending not just regular Mass but the confirmation of his grandson Hunter, son of the late Beau Biden.
FLOTUS was also seen entering the church.
We are still holding outside.
POTUS, FLOTUS, newly confirmed grandson Hunter and extended Biden family left church at 2:08 pm, walking into the beautiful spring sunshine. They spent some minutes outside the doors for photos and chatting. Jill Biden then walked to her SUV and re-emerged with a bouquet of flowers that she took to the other side of the church, where the Biden family graves, including that of Beau, are located. During this time, the president stayed with the group of friends/relatives talking. Frequent laughter drifted across the grassy church yard. At 2:17 pm, the president and that main group strolled to the other side of the church, presumably joining FLOTUS, although pool was no longer able to witness anything.
At 2:29 pm we are rolling.
At 2:35 pm the motorcade entered the leafy driveway of a Greenville residence that was not the president’s home. No official word from the White House yet on whom the house belongs to or how long the Bidens are spending there. Pool is holding nearby in the parking lot at a nearby high school.
POTUS motorcade left the Greenville residence where POTUS had been since church and was back at the Biden family home in Greenville at 3:55 pm. Pool, which could not lay eyes on POTUS himself, peeled off.
We are still tracking an 8:25 pm departure for Washington from the Delaware Air National Guard Base.
We have a lid until 6:40 pm
? Hi thought best to clarify in the subject line that this was just a dinner lid till 6:40 rather than a lid lid.
Pool is being swept near the Biden residence ahead of departure by motorcade to the helicopter at Delaware Air National Guard base in New Castle. Lift off from there will be at around 8:25 pm.
POTUS motorcade rolling from residence at 7:54 pm.
At 8:06 pm, with twilight sliding into night, POTUS boarded Marine One at the Air National Guard base in New Castle.
He did not come over to pool to gaggle.
Pool has hurriedly boarded an Osprey and take off is imminent.
With this, handing off to in-town pool which is in place to cover the POTUS arrival at the White House this evening.
My thanks to all on the trip.