Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool was collected from the stakeout just after 3:40pm, and we’re currently waiting in the South Auditorium ahead of Vice President Kamala Harris’ virtual round table with Guatemalan community leaders, scheduled for 4:00pm.
Passing along some background from WH:
The Vice President will participate in a virtual roundtable with representatives from Guatemalan community based organizations. This convening will be hosted by the U.S. Embassy in Guatemala City and will underscore the importance of placing the Guatemalan people at the center of solutions to root causes of migration.
We'll be in the room for VP's opening remarks/brief gaggle. Will send along color and remarks as soon as possible.
VP entered SA just before 4:00pm and the program kicked off right at the top of the hour.
She's speaking now... sending quotes as they come
VP said she has been "looking forward to this meeting" for quiet some time.
She noted that POTUS has tasked her with addressing the root causes of migration in Guatemala and the region.
"We are building a comprehensive strategy that includes, business leaders, community leaders" she said the the other speakers... adds that they recognize the "acute factors" causing people to "leave right now," including violence, corruption, poverty, lack of economic opportunity, climate change et al
"The reason I wanted to be with you and hear from you," VP added, "is you know the people behind the statistics... I believe you can help me identify the communities who are most need of support," including women, Afro-descendents, indigenous people, and LGBTQ people... "We must defend the human rights of all people"
My focus is not going to be a broad sweeping approach," she continued, adding that the admin will be taking a "place-based approach."
"Finally, you will be able to tell me what has been working and what not has been working," VP stated. "I want to learn what has worked and what has not, from your perspective, and what might work and what not has been tried?" ———> she specifically asked for input on past and current US policies
"I want to hear about you. I want to hear about your work... this is part of what I'd like to learn from you today"
VP added that she plans to meet with this group in June when she travels to the country
Part of my approach to this is recognizing that we are all neighbors in the Western Hemisphere," and we should approach this problem as neighbors, VP said in closing
Pool was ushered out at 4:08pm
There were a handful of admin officials also in attendance, including VP’s spox Symone Sanders and FLOTUS chief of staff, and former Ambassador to Uruguay, Julissa Reynosa Pantaleon
The scene was the typical auditorium setup:
I’m sure y’all gathered this based on the timing of pool getting ushered out, but VP did not field questions. Have a great rest of your Tuesday!