Today, the White House Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) published a report titled 
 detailing how investments in innovation and clean energy can grow an inclusive American economy and are imperative to strengthening U.S. competitiveness in the global market. The analysis outlined policy prescriptions that underscored the need for big, bold investments that tackle the climate crisis while creating good-paying, union jobs.
Heather Boushey, a Member of the President' Council of Economic Advisors, 
 to discuss the report and explain why President Biden's American Jobs Plan makes the historic investments needed to both combat change, create jobs, and ensure U.S. economic competitiveness.
[Ben German, 4/23/21]
The White House Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) has prepared a detailed analysis arguing that big new investments in climate-friendly energy and infrastructure are crucial to U.S. competitiveness and to avoid increasing damage to the economy.
 The forthcoming report is the most detailed White House effort yet to explain the economic case for its clean energy R&D and deployment proposals.
 The report warns that unlike major trading partners, the U.S. lacks an effective strategy around R&D, deployment and supporting workers through the transition to lower-carbon energy.
The report says failure to cut emissions is expensive, citing estimates that extreme weather events, which climate change is exacerbated, have already cost the U.S. $120 billion annually over the past five years.
It points to other estimates that large temperature increases could significantly sap per-capita GDP and hinder labor productivity.
Administration officials point to clean energy's growing market strength — such as steep solar and battery cost declines — to explain why their emissions-cutting goals are credible.
But the CEA report goes to some lengths to explain why significant government intervention and R&D support is still needed, citing:
 a rationale for supporting not only R&D, but also initial commercial demonstration and deployment for emerging technologies such as large-scale CO2 capture projects and utility-scale storage.
 Another pillar of the White House economic case is that federal policy should not only look to create larger clean energy markets, but steer who participates in them.