Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
It's currently 46 degrees F on this beautiful spring morning at the White House.
This morning President Biden is participating in the White House Climate summit. He'll deliver remarks at 9:15 AM EST and these will be livestreamed. We'll be gathering shortly for that.
I've copied the rest of the president's schedule and the briefing schedule below. Let me know if you have any questions throughout the day.
I've been informed by the Press Office that President Biden's climate remarks will now be taking place sometime slightly after 9:18 AM when they were scheduled to start.
Our pool gather time was pushed back from 9:00 AM to 9:20 AM. I'm told they don't have an exact time Biden will start speaking now, but I will share all further updates as I get them.
The pool is now gathering for Biden's remarks to the climate summit in the East Room.
Pool is assembled in the East Room.
The remarks will be live-streamed on 
The pool observed Biden briefly greeting security guards in the main foyer as we waited outside the East Room.
Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry, National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Us Trade Rep Katherine Tai are all seated at a large circular table.
No Biden in the East Room yet.
Biden entered at 9:42 AM, walked to the podium and immediately started speaking.
I will not send full quotes because the remarks are live-streamed.
Biden concluded his remarks at 9:48 AM.
Kerry, McCarthy, Buttigieg and Tai appeared to listen attentively and silently from their seats.
After speaking, Biden silently took his seat at the large circular table with the others.
He answered no press questions.
We have a two minute warning for the White House press briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland.
The press briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Interior Secretary Deb Haaland has begun.
You can watch at 
I'll send off-camera color only.
The briefing concluded at 12:45 PM.
At the conclusion, Press Secretary Jen Psaki announced she had cookies made by her mother-in-law to share with the press corp. Press Assistant Angela Perez handed out the homemade chocolate cookies to the grateful press in the briefing room. My personal review is they're really delicious!
Yes, you read that right we have a travel/photo lid.
Have a great rest of your Friday and a wonderful weekend.