Today, ahead of the Leaders Summit on Climate, National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy convened the third National Climate Task Force. Cabinet members and White House leaders discussed pathways that will significantly reduce greenhouse gases while growing the economy, creating good-paying, union jobs, and cutting pollution on a sector-by-sector basis, consistent with direction from President Biden to develop a 2030 greenhouse gas target as part fulfilling his promise to re-enter the Paris Agreement.
Another key focus of the virtual meeting was to discuss the severe drought that is gripping the western United States. The Task Force was briefed by Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and NOAA scientist Dr. Roger Pulwalty on the severity of the drought. In areas like the Klamath Basin in southern Oregon and northern California, lake levels today are lower than occurred during the Dust Bowl. As has been shown in previous years, severe drought conditions can set the stage for worsening wildfire seasons, which in 2020 alone caused $16.6 billion in damages. The early, severe drought situation is just the latest manifestation of the pervasive and pernicious impacts that climate change is having on American communities.
In response,
The National Climate Task Force also discussed how investing in conservation can fight against climate change by enabling forests, range lands, and farm lands to remove and sequester additional volumes of carbon from the atmosphere – while strengthening the resilience of these lands to drought, wildfire, and other climate impacts.
In line with this theme, several cabinet secretaries announced important conservation initiatives that will help fight against climate change by increasing carbon stocks in conserved lands while strengthening the lands' abilities to withstand drought and other adverse climate impacts. In particular:
USDA also announced investments in partnerships to increase climate-smart agriculture, including $330 million in 85 Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP) projects and $25 million for On-Farm Conservation Innovation Trials. Secretary Vilsack chose to make the announcement at White House National Climate Task Force meeting to demonstrate USDA's commitment to putting American agriculture and forestry at the center of climate-smart solutions to address climate change.
As outlined by President Biden's January 27 executive order on tackling the climate, the Task Force is chaired by the National Climate Advisor and includes Cabinet-level leaders from 21 federal agencies and senior White House officials to mobilize the Biden-Harris Administration's implementation of a whole-of-government approach.