Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Monday, folks.
It's currently 57 degrees and drizzling at the White House. At the moment, POTUS has only 1 public event on his schedule: a 1:15pm infrastructure meeting with a bipartisan group of Congressional lawmakers, all of them former mayors and governors. Here's the attendee list as of last night, per the WH:<
We've also got a coronavirus advisory board briefing (10:30am) and Jen Psaki's daily press briefing (12:15pm). Both of those will be streamed here: 
I'll send updates on any changes to the schedule as I receive them, and as always free to reach out to me directly with any questions.
... at 12:17pm
Reminder, you can stream the briefing here: 
at 1:00pm... just a note that the last two rows of seats didn't get questions today, including your pooler, so apologies to everyone who sent me submissions. Some very important topics in there that we didn't touch on today.
... as of 1:02pm--
Pool entered the Oval Office at 1:36pm.
POTUS was seated at one end of the room with members surrounding him.
POTUS opened by thanking his colleagues for coming... "I am prepared to compromise... It's a big package but there are a lot of needs"
Biden said discussions would focus on what will be in package and how to pay for it: "That's what we're going to try to figure out today..."
POTUS notes that all the members joining him were ex-mayors and govs so they know how to get stuff done at the local level.
Q: what do you think about paying for the plan with user fees?
A: that's what we're going to talk about today...
Pool was ushered out at 1:38pm
Small note, but Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg was seated to POTUS' right, despite not being included in the initial list of meeting attendees.
Per the overhead (2:58pm). Your pooler is now stationed at the sticks ahead of a potential gaggle with meeting participants. --
... called at 3:07pm. Closing the loop, but the lawmakers did not stick around to take questions from pool.
Have a great rest of your Monday!
Passing along the following post-lid note from the White House, and your pooler has been advised there's one more report coming shortly.
Senator Catherine Cortez Masto (NV)
Senator Ben Ray Luján (NM)
Senator Robert Menendez (NJ)
Congressman Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Chair
Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31)
Congresswoman Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44)
Congressman Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)
Congresswoman Teresa Leger Fernández (NM-03)
Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38)
Congressman Darren Soto (FL-09)
Passing along one final piece of background from the White House ahead of POTUS' Tuesday virtual tour of the Proterra plant in Greenville, South Carolina.
And that, as the kids say, is a wrap. 