Pool Reports by 
, 
Salutations from an pleasantly overcast morning at the White House. No changes so far to the daily guidance. Feel free to ping me with questions along the way.
Here's what we have on deck so far:
Attendees of the virtual CEO Summit on Semiconductor and Supply Chain Resilience that the President is dropping by today:
Sundar Pichai, CEO of Alphabet and Google
Thaddeus Arroyo, CEO of AT&T Consumer, AT&T Communications LLC
Tom Linebarger, Chairman and CEO of Cummins, Inc.
Michael Dell, President and CEO of Dell Technologies
James "Jim" D. Farley, Jr., President and CEO of Ford Motor Company
Mary Barra, Chairman and CEO of General Motors
Dr. Thomas "Tom" Caulfield, CEO of Global Foundries
Enrique Lores, President and CEO of HP
Patrick "Pat" Gelsinger, CEO of Intel Corporation
Geoff Martha, Chairman and CEO of Medtronic
Sanjay Mehrotra, President and CEO of Micron
Kathy J. Warden, Chairman, CEO, and President of Northrop Grumman
Kurt Sievers, President and CEO of NXP
R. Preston Feight, CEO of PACCAR
Gordon Fournier, Chief Operating and Financial Officer of the Piston Group
Si Young Choi, President and General Manager of Samsung's Device Solutions Division
Thomas Sonderman, President and CEO of SkyWater Technology
Carlos Tavares, CEO and Executive Director of Stellantis
Mark Liu, Executive Chairman of the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC)
Hey there. A slight change.
Pool will now join the 
 of the semiconductor summit for a spray, after the Psaki briefing, which is still scheduled for 12:15 pm. Will likely be a shorter briefing than usual. Pool will head to the meeting after the briefing around 12:40 p.m
Warm up those teevees
FYI, pool is now gathering for the president's brief remarks ahead of the virtual CEO summit. According to the daily guidance, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, and the Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo will also be in attendance.
Pool was escorted into the Roosevelt room at 1:33 pm.
We are running a bit late. Biden said he will address the killing of a black man by a police officer in Brooklyn Center, Minnesota at the next spray, which is a meeting in the Oval Office. Biden spoke for five minutes.
Here are some highlights of his remarks. Please review the playback on your preferred television or radio program and excuse the typos, as this transcription was made in haste.
"In fact, today I received a letter from 23, senators, bipartisan and 42 House members Republican and Democrats, supporting the chips for America program."
"But I've been saying for some time now, China and the rest of the world is not waiting. And there's no reason why Americans should wait. We're investing aggressively in areas like semiconductors and batteries, that's what they're doing and others, so must we."
"These chips—these wafers—are batteries broadband, so all infrastructure. This is infrastructure. So look, we need to build infrastructure of today, not repairing the one of yesterday"
"We led the world in the middle of the 20th century. We led the world toward the end of the century, we're going to lead the world again."
"And I'm not ready to give up. I'm ready to work with all of you, with the Congress, both parties to pass the American Job plan, and to make a once in a generation investment in America's future, again, will provide the innovation and spur breakthroughs."
"This is a moment for American strength and American unity for government, industry, communities to work together to make sure that we're ready to meet the global competition that lies ahead, not continue to slide..."
Biden spoke for a few minutes at the top of his Oval Office meeting starting at 2:27 pm. He says he has spoken to the Governor of Minnesota and local authorities regarding yesterday's shooting. He's yet to speak with Daunte Wright's family, but he says they remain in his prayers.
"I think we got to wait and see what the investigation shows. The entire investigation."
Biden says he watched the "fairly graphic" body camera footage from the officer who killed Wright.
"The question is whether it was an accident or intentional? That remains to be determined."
Biden then stressed that there is "absolutely no justification for violence" in protest or otherwise. "Peaceful protest is understandable. And the fact is that we do know that the anger, pain and trauma that exists in Black community in that environment is real, serious, and consequential. But that does not justify violence..."
Biden continues: "We should listen to Dante's mom who is calling for peace and calm."
When asked by a reporter if he should direct federal resources to the area, Biden says there are already resources directed toward Minnesota in preparation for the results of the ongoing trial of Derek Chauvin, the police officer involved in the death of George Floyd.
When asked if he expects the country is on a "razor's edge" Biden says he is "not going to speculate now. I hopeful that there will be an outcome that will be supported by a vast majority of people in the region and that is my expectation."
When asked if he wanted to remark on infrastructure, Biden said he is "prepared to negotiate as to the extent of the infrastructure project as well as how we pay for it."
He cited access to water and broadband as infrastructure.
"That's what we're talking about. And I'm confident that everything is going to work out for us," Biden said, to some laughter from the room.
He quickly shot down the idea that his meetings across the aisle were "window dressing."
Pool was then quickly ushered out of the Oval at 2:30 p.m. As always, check remarks against the cable feeds for typos etc., which are sure to be coming very soon.
White House calls a travel/photo lid at 4:01 pm. Have a great day!--