Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House!
It's another beautiful spring day in D.C. Your pooler imagines the cherry blossoms around the Tidal Basin must be popping and advises everyone to make their pilgrimage before it's too late.
The main event on the public schedule is the POTUS event in the Rose Garden. The event will be livestreamed. Your pooler won't provide any quotes, but color not able to be seen on camera. As always, your pooler will advise you of any updates to the schedule.
The White House has already forwarded the list of attendees for the Rose Garden event.
From the White House:
Attendees for remarks by the President, the Vice President, and the Attorney General on gun violence prevention in the Rose Garden:
Senator Richard Blumenthal (CT)
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)
Congressman David Cicilline (RI-01)
Congressman Lou Correa (CA-46)
Congresswoman Lucy McBath (GA-06)
Congressman Joe Neguse (CO-02)
Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-05)
Former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords
Mayor Ras Baraka, Newark, NJ
Mayor Muriel Bowser, District of Columbia
Peter Ambler, Giffords
Chief LeRonne Armstrong, Chief of Police, Oakland Police Department
Jackie Barden, Sandy Hook Promise
Mark Barden, Sandy Hook Promise
Matt Barnes, Advance Peace
Eddie Bocanegra, READI Chicago, Heartland Alliance
Kris Brown, Brady
Dr. Antonio Cediel, LIVE FREE Campaign, Faith in Action
Mariah Cooley, March For Our Lives
John Feinblatt, Everytown for Gun Safety
Angela Ferrell-Zabala, Moms Demand Action
Erica Ford, LIFE Camp
Amber Goodwin, Community Justice Action Fund
Fred Guttenberg
Linda Harllee Harper, Director of Gun Violence Prevention, District of Columbia
Luis Hernandez, Youth Over Guns
Greg Jackson, Community Justice Action Fund
Karen Lee, Pathways 2 Power
Fatimah Loren Dreier, Health Alliance for Violence Intervention
Po Murray, Newtown Action Alliance
Oresa Napper-Williams, Not Another Child
Lauryn Renford, Pathways 2 Power
Linda Schulman
Michael Schulman
Aqeela Sherrills, Alliance for Safety and Justice
Dr. Chico Tillmon, Treatment Alternatives for Safe Communities
Brandon Wolf, Equality Florida
POTUS entered the Rose Garden with VPOTUS at 11:55 am to a round of applause.
First Lady Dr. Jill Biden also got a round of applause as she entered the Rose Garden and seated herself moments before the event began.
?Attorney General Merrick Garland has also joined POTUS and VPOTUS for the event. As of now, he’s standing silently behind the two in the Rose Garden.
POTUS, VPOTUS and AG Garland exited the White House Rose Garden after the event concluded at 12:30.
The briefing ended at 1:45.
The White House just now on the intercom at 2:03: "And now, the moment you have been waiting now. You have a travel-photo lid."