Pool Reports by 
, 
I am your print pool reporter for this brisk but beautiful Good Friday.
President Biden is slated to deliver brief remarks on the March jobs report at 11:00 and then to depart the White House for Camp David at noon. The briefing is scheduled for 12:30.
Don't hesitate to reach out if I can be helpful.
President Biden walked into the State Dining Room just now.
"I'm looking forward to it," he said of the Easter weekend. He is speaking now, and his remarks are being carried live.
Remarks ended a couple minutes ago.
Asked about McConnell and Republican opposition to his infrastructure package, Biden said "I think Republican voters are going to have a lot to say about it."
He added in reference to his proposal in that package to replace lead pipes, "what do you think would happen if they found out all the lead pipes are up in the Capitol. Every time we turn on the water?"
Asked how much credit he is taking for the jobs numbers, Biden said "I'm giving credit to the American people."
We are holding before heading out for Marine One departure shortly.
The president exited the White House and walked arm-in-arm with the First Lady, who had a big bouquet of flowers, to Marine One. He took no questions. Wheels up at 12:15.
White House press secretary Jen Psaki just walked into the briefing room a moment ago accompanied by the Department of Labor Secretary Marty Walsh. It is being live streamed.
The briefing has ended.
The White House passed along the following just moments ago. Of particular note, is that Yohannes Abraham is travelling with the president.
See below:
"Marine One landed at Camp David at 12:53 PM."
"The President is traveling with:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Yohannes Abraham, Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary for the National Security Council
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President"
The White House called a lid at 2:44pm. Have a good one. Stay safe.