President Biden believes this is the moment to reimagine and rebuild a new American economy. The American Jobs Plan will create millions of good-paying jobs, rebuild our country's infrastructure, and position the United States to out-compete China.
"A $1.5 trillion infrastructure program from the Biden-Harris administration would be 
. It would create or save 15 million jobs over 10 years, according to a new report from the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce (CEW)."
. This weighs more and more heavily on businesses' competitiveness and the economy's productivity growth and is increasing our vulnerability to climate change."
"With close to 
 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, an infrastructure plan that provides 
 would be particularly effective."
"President Joe Biden's massive infrastructure plan 
, undoing some of the economic damage inflicted by the coronavirus pandemic, economists said, with 
"
"CEW estimates the investment would create 8 million jobs for workers with a high school diploma or less and 4.8 million jobs for those with more than a high school diploma but less than a bachelor's degree."
"President Biden introduced a $2 trillion plan on Wednesday to 
 calling it a transformational effort that could create the "most resilient, innovative economy in the world.""
"But even spread over years, the scale of the proposal underscores how fully Mr. Biden has embraced the opportunity to use federal spending to 
.
Officials said that, if approved, the spending in the plan would 
 — and would return government investment in those areas, as a share of the economy, to its highest levels since the 1960s."
"More than a half-century later, President Biden's 
 and other foundations of the economy comes with a new twist: hundreds of billions of dollars that administration officials say will help 
 in how the government builds, repairs and locates a wide range of physical infrastructure."
"President Biden's infrastructure plan calls for an 
 to the nation's passenger rail system, seeking to address Amtrak's repair backlog, extend service to more cities and modernize the network in the Northeast Corridor."
"But the 
 of the president's agenda is its $400 billion commitment to fund the 
."
"The Biden plan acknowledges this reality with proposals to 
. And it does so in language that recognizes an emerging understanding of how investing in the human beings who care for children, seniors, and people with disabilities is 
 as investing in roads and bridges."
"The administration this week set out high-level goals: 
 Taxpayer money shouldn't help finance outdated internet technology. And we should pay less for internet service. Those principles sound simple but are deceptively revolutionary. The plan is essentially a statement that what we're doing now is not working, and 
."
"But let me stress what's exciting about the White House plan. It identifies the right problems, declares a worthy mission and demands fewer roadblocks to bridge the best of government with the best of capitalism."
"President Biden's proposed "American Jobs Plan" contains 
, clean energy, job creation, affordable housing, high-speed internet and more. Rural advocates are 
 about the proposal."
"More broadly, Biden's proposal would 
 — more than three times the Housing and Urban Development Department's annual budget of about $60 billion — into 
 including both public projects and lower-rent private residences. That spending would be for both new and existing homes in cities, suburbs and small towns."
"But the housing component of Biden's behemoth transportation-infrastructure-climate-change-housing-and-elder-care proposal envisions communities competing for new pots of money that can be used to 
. The concept has 
."