Pool Reports by 
, 
UPDATE: The covid briefing is now at 1:30 pm.
Good morning from the White House on this gray-skied Saint Patrick's Day, the first for this proudly Irish POTUS. Pool is covid-tested and awaits arrival of POTUS soon from Wilmington, Del.
The fountain on the North Lawn is flowing green, a tradition that dates at least from the O'Bama administration. We hear the South Lawn fountain water is also running green, will confirm shortly.
On POTUS's schedule:
For those who don't know Gaelic:
Taoiseach (title of Irish prime minister) is pronounced "TEE-shock"
Micheál is pronounced "MEE-hole"
Thank you to foreign pool reporter Marek Walkuski of Polish radio, who shared a gift to each of us here in the press corps from the Irish Embassy: wearable living shamrocks. It is affixed to my lapel. Marek will also soon share a video of the Irish ambassador with a Gaelic pronunciation lesson.
Statement from Press Secretary Jen Psaki:
Later this morning, the President will be briefed over the phone by Attorney General Merrick Garland and FBI Director Christopher Wray on the horrific shootings last night in Atlanta.
Marine One landed on south lawn at 10:27 a.m.
POTUS stepped out of the helo at 10:30, saluted at bottom of steps. As he walked toward Oval Office, he waved to pool. Potus entered Oval a minute later.
Reporters asked about Atlanta, his response was unclear. Will review TV tape. Potus in dark suit, muted green tie.
Response to pool shouted questions to POTUS on Atlanta as he walked toward Oval:
"I'll be talking about that in a minute and I'll be back out"
From the press office, some more background about today:
As you may have seen, Speaker Pelosi's office advised that the President will participate in the Virtual Annual Friends of Ireland Celebration hosted by Speaker Pelosi at 12:30 PM today. The President's video is pre-taped. You can watch the event here: 
. We'd refer any follow-up to the Speaker's office.
The White House will be lit up in green tonight, as reported by NBC: 
from Linda: will report timing on the green lighting when I find out.
Lunch lid until 12:30 pm.
From the press office:
The White House will be lit up in green for Saint Patrick's Day at 7:00 PM. The North side of the building will remain lit all night. The lights on the South, East, and West sides will be turned off at 11:00 PM.
Pool was ushered into the Oval Office at 1:20 pm.
POTUS led with remarks on the Atlanta shootings.
Was on phone with AG and FBI DIRECTOR, motivation still to be determined. Asian Americans are "concerned", "I'm making no connection on motivation of killer"
"I'll have more to say when the investigation" is further along
Please check quotes against transcript or watch TV.
He was speaking at the top of a pool spray before his virtual bilat with Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin.
"Next year in Washington"
More TK
Potus spoke more:
We will light up the WH in green, to "celebrate the deep deep affection Americans have, particularly Irish Americans, for Ireland."
Spoke of Irish forebears, including Grandpa Ambrose Finnegan who would say, "Joey remember, the best drop of blood in me is Irish"
On his last Irish visit, he says he joked: "I wonder why we left in the first place... Irish Americans think they're more Irish than the Irish"
Re good friday agreement, feels it's "strongly critical to maintain."
Spoke of fight against cancer and relatives in Mayo ... one headed up hospice in Ireland, just dedicated a new facility dedicated to Beau.
"I said, we Irish are the only people who are nostalgic for the future."
Yielded floor to Taoiseach, on a video screen to Potus' right, who spoke of the "shocking shootings"
Hopes next year will be better, with each person is vaccinated and wecan celebrate and hug again.
"For now the shamrock bowl in front of you... has green shoots that point to a brighter future ahead"
Spoke of shared values and interests in the world. Wants to work together on climate action. Thanked him for his "unwavering support" for the Good Friday agreement.
"We have all endured the most difficult year."
Pool escorted out at 1:34 pm. Potus ignored cacophony of shouted questions.
Jake Sullivan on couch to potus's left
POTUS on the Atlanta shootings, from audio recording:
"The investigation is ongoing. And the question of motivation is still to be determined. But whatever the motivation here I know that Asian Americans are very concerned, because as you know I've been speaking about the brutality against Asian Americans for the last couple of months and I think it is very troubling.
"I'm making no connection at this moment to the motivation of the killer, and waiting for an answer as the investigation proceeds from the FBI and from the Justice Department. I'll have more to say when the investigation [inaudible]."
Two-minute warning for the briefing issued at 3 pm. Press Secretary Jen Psaki will be joined by Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.
At 3:02 pm.
At 3:50 pm.
From the press office:
The President will be giving remarks to members of the Irish community at 4:45PM. You can watch at this link: 
From the press office:
Background on the President's formal press conference on Thursday, March 25:
The White House will work in coordination with the White House Correspondents' Association to develop a plan for access that also protects the health and safety of the press corps. We will be in touch shortly with more details.
We have a travel/photo lid at 5:35 pm.
Also, a correction: The Irish Taoiseach's name, Micheál, is pronounced "Mee-hall." Thank you to Caitriona Perry of RTE for pointing that out!
And to quote the Queen, 
 or Happy St. Patrick's Day to all of you.