Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from a very wet tarmac at Andrews Air Force base! President Biden's motorcade rolled up at about 2:23 pm.
He disembarked about a minute later and boarded the plane after speaking briefly with one of the greeters.
Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to gaggle en route. That's going to be piped in at the WH so your in town pooler will send out a report if he's back in time.
The White Hohse sent along this list if greeters;
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Traveling with the President to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania:
The White House also passed along the following background memo on the president's trip today.
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
TO: Out-of-Town Travel Pool
FROM: White House Press Office
DATE: March 31, 2021
RE: Background for the President's Visit to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
The Need for Action in Pennsylvania
The pandemic and the associated economic crisis have had a severe impact on Pennsylvania:
Since the pandemic began, more than 1,015,268 people have been infected with COVID-19 and more than 25,015 people have died.
The unemployment rate is 7.3%, up from 5.0% before the pandemic.
Since February 2020, approximately 337,081 fewer people are employed.
701,000 adults – 9% of all adults in the Commonwealth – report not having enough food to eat. This includes 381,000 adults living with children, or 14% of all adults living with children, who report that the children in their household do not have enough to eat.
An estimated 489,000 renters, or 20% of renters, are not caught up on rent.
An estimated 2,747,000 adults, or 30% of all adults statewide, report having difficulty covering normal household expenses.
The Effect of the American Rescue Plan on Pennsylvania
The American Rescue Plan will provide Pennsylvania with:
$7.4 billion in state fiscal relief.
$4.9 billion in local fiscal relief.
More than $5.1 billion in relief for K-12 schools.
Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (in addition to the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 8.1 million adults and 2.8 million children. This is 86% of all adults in the Commonwealth and 84% of all children in the Commonwealth.
Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 2,368,000 children, lifting 140,000 children out of poverty.
Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 700,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,402 lower per month for a 60-year-old couple earning $75,000 per year.
Pennsylvania Vaccinations Update
Pennsylvania residents with at least one dose: 4,003,172 people (31.3% of the total population).
Pennsylvania residents fully vaccinated: 2,084,919 people (16.3% of the total population).
Federal Support for Pennsylvania Vaccinations
Pharmacies: As of March 29, the Biden-Harris Administration's program has made vaccines available in over 800 stores, with more than 650 receiving deliveries in the past week. Participating pharmacies are primarily Rite Aid, Topco, CVS, and Walmart locations but also include five other partners.
Community Health Centers: The Biden-Harris Administration is partnering with 29 Health Centers to provide them with direct vaccine allocations. Four were onboarded in the first phase of the program, in Philadelphia and Williamsport, and 25 are being onboarded over this second six-week phase, in Allentown, Bethlehem, Chester, Erie, Fredericktown, Greensboro, Harrisburg, Lancaster, New Holland, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Pottstown, Reading, Scranton, and York. Combined, they have sites at over 175 different locations across the Commonwealth.
Federal Funding: As of March 26, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $198 million to the Commonwealth to support vaccination operations. There are 37 federally-supported community vaccination centers currently operational in the Commonwealth and over 300 federal personnel in the field supporting vaccinations. Additionally, over 300 federally-funded National Guard members are supporting the Commonwealth's COVID-19 response.
The gaggle is set to take place 10-15 minutes into the flight.
Air Force One began rolling at 2:31 pm. We were wheels up and en route to Pittsburgh International Airport at about 2:35 pm.
Air Force One landed at Pittsburgh International Airport at 3:16 pm. The gaggle with Karine Jean-Pierre, which was streamed on the White House site, wrapped up after a bumpy moment during the landing.
President Biden disembarked Air Force One at about 3:31 pm.
He briefly spoke with an aiman at the base of the steps before getting onto the motorcade a minute later.
Fun fact: The plane steps bore the insignia of the 171st Air Refueling Wing, which bears a strong resemblance to the Pittsburgh Steelers logo.
The motorcade began rolling at 3:33pm.
The press vans are currently stopped on the tarmac. President Biden is visiting with someone here. Your pooler has asked for further details about the stop.
The White House passed along the following information about POTUS' arrival:
Upon arrival at Pittsburgh International Airport, the President was greeted by:
Colonel Mark Goodwill, Commander, 171st Air Refueling Wing, Pennsylvania Air National Guard, Coraopolis
[
]
We are still holding outside the hangar. The White House sent some details about what POTUS is up to in there:
In the hangar, the President was greeted by:
Governor Tom Wolf
Senator Bob Casey
Congressman Conor Lamb (PA-17)
Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-18)
The President then participated in a photo line with:
Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman
Secretary of Transportation Yassmin Gramian
State Senator Jay Costa (SD-43), Senate Democratic Leader
State Representative Joanna McClinton (LD-191), House Democratic Leader
State Representative Austin Davis (LD-35)
State Representative Malcolm Kenyatta (LD-181)
Nancy Patton Mills, Chairwoman of the Pennsylvania Democratic Party
Cliff Levine, Attorney at Dentons Cohen & Grigsby
Mary Esther Van Shura, former Director of Community Affairs for the Allegheny County Executive
Thomas Tull, former Chairman and CEO of Legendary Entertainment
Christina Cassotis, CEO, Allegheny Airport Authority
[
]
The motorcade got moving again at 3:55 pm. --
Your pooler just realized I accidentally labeled the last couple reports as "in town." I am not sure how I did that and deeply regret the error. --
We just received a two minute warning for the president's speech at about 4:32 pm. It will be streamed online. Please refer to the broadcast for quotes.
In response to questions from reporters, Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre provided the following statement about Major Biden, the dog.
"Major is still adjusting to his new surroundings and he nipped someone while on a walk. Out of an abundance of caution the individual was seen by WHMU and returned to work without injury."
Your pooler would really like to know what's happening with the White House cat.
President Biden stepped up to the lectern at about 4:38 pm. The guests in the room applauded.
The White House passed along the following information about today's event:
Introducing the President:
Mike Fiore, IBEW Local 29 Member and Senior Line Worker for Duquesne Light
In the audience for the President's remarks:
Governor Tom Wolf
Senator Bob Casey
Congressman Conor Lamb (PA-17)
Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-18)
William "Bill" Peduto, Mayor of the City of Pittsburgh
Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County Executive
William "Bill" Waterkotte, Eastern District Vice President for the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America
William "Bill" Sproule, Executive Secretary-Treasurer for the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters
Elizabeth "Tori" Shriver, Deputy Political Director for the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters for Pennsylvania
President Biden finished speaking at about 5:10 pm. He walked to the back of the room past a large pile of wood boards. --
[
]
We are still here at the Carpenters Training Center. The White House passed along this info about what POTUS is up to backstage:
The President is doing a taped interview with Sage Steele of ESPN. The interview will air tonight at 11 PM ET.
The pool moved out from the Carpenters Training Center and onto the vans at about 6:10pm.
After his interview, POTUS participated in a photo line. Here are details from the White House.
The President is participating in a photo line with:
Darrin Kelly, President, Allegheny/Fayette Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO
Nina Esposito-Visgitis, President, Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers AFT Local #400; Vice-President, Allegheny/Fayette Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO
Thomas M. Conway, International President, United Steelworkers
Carl A. Bailey, Secretary-Treasurer/Principal Officer, Teamsters Local Union 205; President, Teamsters Joint Council #40
Philip Ameris, President/Business Manager, Laborers' District Council of Western Pennsylvania; Vice-President, Allegheny/Fayette Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO
Ralph Sicuro, President, Pittsburgh Fire Firefighters, IAFF Local No. 1; Vice-President, Allegheny/Fayette Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO
Chris Geronimos, Business Manager/Secretary-Treasurer, International Union of Painters and Allied Trades (IUPAT) District Council 57
Gregory Bernarding, Business Manager/Financial Secretary-Treasurer, Iron Workers Local Union No. 3
David Taylor, President, South Fayette Education Association (NEA Affiliate)
Frank Snyder, Secretary-Treasurer, Pennsylvania AFL-CIO
Stephen Palonis, President/Business Agent, Amalgamated Transit Union Local 85
The motorcade got rolling at 6:22 pm. --
The motorcade arrived at the airport at about 6:36 pm.
Along the way we passed a handful of people holding "TRUMP" sugns with US flags.
Biden boarded the plane with a wave and salute at about 6:38 pm.
Air Force One began rolling down the runway at abojt 6:43 pm and was wheels up at 6:45 pm. --
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 7:35 pm. --
President Biden disembarked Air Force One at about 7:45 pm. He saluted an airman on the ground and they spoke briefly. Biden ignored shouted questions about when he wants to see the bill passed abd boarded the motorcade at 7:46 pm.
Your pooler is now handing off to the in town crew.
On a personal note, this is going to be my last time in the pool for a while. It has been an honor and a privilege yelling at the president on behalf of the people and alongside so many increeibly talented and kind journalists.
See you all around! And, most importantly, go Brooklyn Nets!!!
The White House sent along this info about the president's arrival:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President was greeted by:
Colonel Stephen Snelson, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, Joint Base Andrews