Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House - I'll be your print pooler today. Feel free to reach out with any questions.
No updates as of yet to the schedule that was released last night:
You may have already seen this, but passing along on background from a White House official re: the president's speech tonight:
Today, on the one-year anniversary of the shutdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, President Biden will deliver his first primetime address. We expect the speech to run under 20 minutes. Below are a few of the focuses:
The press office just advised that the briefing with Jen Psaki will now be at noon.
The press office has advised that the briefing is delayed and is not starting at noon. Awaiting an update on the new start time.
If you didn't see the latest White House guidance, the president now plans to sign the coronavirus relief package today at 1:30 instead of Friday afternoon:
In the afternoon, the President will sign the American Rescue Plan in the Oval Office. The Vice President will also attend. This event will be pooled press.
2:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki 
A lunch lid has been called until 1:10 pm.
Jen Psaki explained the schedule change on the bill signing in a tweet a little while ago. Signing event still planned at the White House on Friday.
As of 1:44 pm, pool is holding in the briefing room ahead of the signing, which the White House is streaming live here: 
We should be on the move soon.
As of 2:01 pm, pool is still holding in the briefing room.?
[
]
As of 2:04 pm, pool is in the Oval Office awaiting POTUS.
President Biden signed the bill at 2:09 pm. He was joined by Vice President Harris.
Partial quotes: Clear that an "overwhelming percentage" of the American people support the legislation
Says it is "about rebuilding the backbone of this country"?
Two-minute warning was announced at 2:16 pm.
[
]
[
]
We have a dinner lid until 5:50 pm.
The press office passed along this list of the members of Congress who will be attending the Rose Garden event tomorrow afternoon, which will feature remarks from POTUS and VPOTUS on the American Rescue Plan:
Pool was escorted to the East Room at approximately 7:48 pm ahead of the president's address, which is being streamed at 
 (among the many other ways the public will be able to tune in).
POTUS entered at approximately 8:01 pm and is now speaking.
POTUS finished speaking and exited at 8:25 pm after an address that lasted approximately 23 minutes. First Lady Jill Biden was among those who listened to the speech from the back of the room.
A travel/photo lid was called at 8:31 pm. Have a great evening!