Pool Reports by 
, 
Good cloudy morning from the White House. It's going to be in the high 60s today - chances we can get an outdoor press briefing? Your pooler can dream.
Pool is gathering at the Palm room doors for the President and the Vice President’s virtual meeting with their counterparts in the Quad: Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan.
As always - please reach out if you have any questions. More soon.
Pool entered the state dining room at 8:32am. Three tables are set in a horseshoe formation, Biden at the center table flanked by Anthony Blinken and VP Harris. Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan are featured on large flat screen televisions to the left of the President, adjacent to flags from their corresponding nations. I’ll post a photo on Twitter.
Attending the Quad meeting in person, in addition to the President and the Vice President:
Tony Blinken, Secretary of State
Jake Sullivan, National Security Advisor
Jeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response
Kurt Campbell, Indo-Pacific Coordinator, National Security Council
Sumona Guha, Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
Pool was escorted out of the dining room at 8:44 am after each leader gave brief opening remarks. No news from any of that. Biden did not respond yet to a shouted question about the situation at the Southern Border.
Will send along quotes from Biden’s remarks ASAP.
Here are some highlights from the opening remarks at the Quad meeting. Please check against cable feeds when those are available, as your pooler had to sit on the floor under a tripod in order to get semi clear audio. Our press section was blocked by television monitors!
Would be happy to send the audio along to folks. Just give me a digital shout.
Biden: "A free and open Indo-Pacific is essential...the United States is committed to working with you, our partners, and all of our allies in the region to achieve stability. This is a group particularly important because it is dedicated to the practical solutions and concrete results."
"Yesterday, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan to get the American people through this pandemic and kickstart our economy, our economic recovery. Get meaningful help in the hands of people who need it most. Consequently, this week, the OECD revised up its expected rate of growth in the United States this year. The consequence of that is inflation. In fact, it doubled, from 3.2 percent to 6.5 percent."
"It is critical because the OECD also predicted that the United States economic growth [...] will be a key driver in global growth this year and our trade partners around the globe will benefit as a consequence. To get this right we'll have to focus on generating domestic demand and driving sustainable global growth."
"We've got a big agenda ahead of us gentlemen as you well know, but I'm optimistic about our prospects. The Quad is going to be vital in our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific and I look forward to looking closely to working with all of you in the coming years."
The other world leaders expressed similar excitement and willingness to collaborate in the Indo-Pacific region.
Per WH, Psaki briefing now at 12:15 p.m.
We have a lunch lid until 12:00 pm. Bon appetit
Two minutes til go time.
Pool is gathered in the Rose Garden. Passing along event BG from the White House —
The President and the Vice President will be joined by Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Schumer on stage. The First Lady and the Second Gentleman will be in the audience.
Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the First Lady
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the President
Hartina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Congressional attendees:
Biden concluded his remarks at 3:00 p.m. He did not answer a shouted question from a reporter about his new goal for shots. We will gather soon for his departure to Wilmington on this beautiful spring day.
More soon. Sit tight.
Pool gathering momentarily for Biden's departure to Wilmington for the weekend. He's scheduled to leave at 3:40.
President Biden and the First Lady exited the White House at 3:36 p.m. holding hands. POTUS did not stop by the pool and did not answer shouted questions about whether NY Gov. Cuomo should resign.
Marine One took off at 3:42 pm en route to Wilmington Delaware. Over to you, out of town pool.
Good evening everyone. Get off your phones and enjoy this weather.
Passing along this one final piece of into:
On Marine One with the President and the First Lady:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security Council
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Goodbye this time, I mean it!