Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House!
I'll be your print pooler today. The sun is shining and the temperature is 39 degrees on this proto-Spring morning in D.C.
On the public schedule: an 11 am briefing with the COVID-19 response team and public health officials, then an 11:30 briefing with Psaki, members of the Gender Policy Council and chief of staff to the first lady.
This afternoon, POTUS is set to visit a veterans center administering COVID-19 vaccines, then deliver remarks at the White House on International Women's Day.
Your pooler will keep you apprised of any changes.
The White House has called a lunch lid until 11:20.
WH briefing has begun with officials listed on guidance.
11:30 AM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, Co-Chair of the Gender Policy Council and Chief of Staff to the First Lady Julissa Reynoso, and Co-Chair and Executive Director of the Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein
The White House briefing ended at 12:30.
Motorcade started rolling at 12:56 to the Washington D.C. Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Pool spotted POTUS and Jeff Zientz - both wearing masks - walking out of the Oval Office and into the presidential limo moments before.
Motorcade arrived at VA Center at 1:08. No sighting of POTUS upon exit.
Prior to arrival, motorcade passed near the Washington Monument a group of protesters appearing to be from a women's group, but against transgender rights. One held a sign reading "against the Equality Act" and another held a sign reading "sex not gender." Protesters shouted an indiscernible chant at motorcade as it passed.
After holding in the stairwell, pool was escorted into a conference room at 1:14. Pool spotted WH Chief of Staff outside the room in the hallway.
POTUS entered at 1:20 from a door near a U.S. flag, a flag with the presidential seal and a VA flag. Denis McDonough entered as well stood in the rear of the room.
"Sit, sit. I stand for you," POTUS said as VA workers stood to greet him.
Listen: 
 (Can't vouch for quality.)
Retired Army Col. Michael Heimall of the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center introduced each of the workers.
"We're really warping the speed now," POTUS said to workers as Heimall was introducing each of them.
"God love you," POTUS told one worker as she explained how she mixes the Pfizer vaccine
"Where is Jeff Zientz?" POTUS asked at one point, prompting Zientz to come up from behind the pool to the rear of the conference room near POTUS.
"I just want to see Jeff. Jeff's been doing incredible work," POTUS said.
POTUS watched intently and silently as the VA worker mixed the vaccine from her desk.
"We're doing pretty good across the country. We're going to hit 100 million soon," POTUS said.
"I learned from the Recovery Act. You have to be hands on," POTUS said, referencing the 2009 stimulus package.
"It's one thing to have efficiency, you have to have equity as well," POTUS said.
"I'd take off my coat, except I've had my two," POTUS joked as worker finished mixing the vaccine.
POTUS speaking to the service member in attendance, made a reference to his late son Beau Biden. The service member stood up to tell POTUS about a previous role guarding him as Vice President.
Twitter pics: 
Pool escorted out at 1:34 pm. POTUS didn't respond to a couple questions shouted him by pool reporters he likely didn't hear as pool was escorted out.
McDonough didn't say at word before pool at the event. Pool is now holding in the motorcade.
From the White House:
Vaccine Event Participants:
- Pharmacist: Dr. Deepika Duggineni, PharmD, Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center Clinical Pharmacist
- Table 1:
- Table 2:
- Table 3:
Your pooler didn't hear this, but Bloomberg's Jennifer Jacobs is reporting POTUS told pool at the VA Center he'll sign the ARP "as soon as I can get it."
Motorcade started rolling at 1:52. No sighting of POTUS.
Motorcade returned to the White House at 2:03 after an uneventful trip. Photographers snapped a few pics of POTUS heading to the Oval Office with Jeff Zientz and an unidentifiable woman.
The White House called a second lunch lid until 3:45.
A handful of the same protestors against transgender rights were nearby the White House upon return of motorcade. One held up a sign reading, "The Equality Act makes women second-class citizens."
Since the Equality Act is unexpectedly coming up so much today in my pool reports, here's a chart I previously put together on LGBTQ rights outlining current law compared to what the Equality Act and the Fairness for All Act compromise Rep. Chris Stewart (R-Utah) has proposed would do:
Pool has been escorted into the East Room for the IWD event.
The WH daily guidance states the event would take place in the State Dining Room, but that apparently was in error.
From the White House:
On background from the Office of the President:
Today, on International Women’s Day, the President will announce the nominations of two female General Officers for appointment to positions as 4-star Combatant Commanders.
The nominees are:
If confirmed by the Senate, General Van Ovost and Lieutenant General Richardson will become the second and third women to lead a Combatant Command. General (Retired) Lori Robinson, USAF, former Commander of U.S. Northern Command from 2016-2018, was the first woman to serve as a Combatant Commander since their establishment in 1986.
POTUS entered the East Room at 4:23 with Gens. Austin, Van Ovost and Richardson.
Note: Your pooler won’t provide quotes from the event because it is being live-streamed at 
.
VPOTUS is also among the officials who entered the East Room with POTUS.
Event concluded at 4:43. An NBC News reporter asked POTUS as he exited if he thinks he can pass voting rights in its current form with the Senate filibuster.
POTUS replied, "I can talk to you about that later."
The White House called a travel-photo lid at 4:51.
Enjoy your evening!