Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Morning & Happy Monday,
A Lunch Lid was called until 12:15pm.
No changes to the schedule as of yet.
Here for your pooling needs today...
Two-minute warning called....
Briefing wrapped up just before 1:20p.m.
Pool is gathering for POTUS’ remarks on COVID-19.
You can follow along at 
Greetings from the South Court Auditorium...
The stage is fitted with a blue backdrop that reads COVID-19 RESPONSE, three U.S flags and a flag of the presidential seal.?
2 min warning called at 2:28pm
POTUS walked on stage at 2:30 pm joined by VP Harris.
POTUS and VPOTUS walked off stage at 2:43
Asked if states should pause reopening efforts POTUS quickly said "Yes."
Asked about Dr. Wallensky's "impending doom" remarks , he said he "thoroughly" explained his thoughts on covid rates with his remarks.
Passing along from the White House Press Office, a list of those involved in the COVID-19 briefing held earlier this afternoon >>>
Today’s COVID-19 briefing participants:
In person:
· President Biden
· Vice President Harris
· Jeff Zients, Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response
· Natalie Quillian, Deputy Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response
On screen:
· Dr. Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the President and NIAID Director
· Dr. Rochelle Walensky, Director for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
· Dr. Vivek Murthy, Surgeon General of the United States
· Dr. Cameron Webb, Senior Policy Advisor for COVID-19 Equity
· Ms. Rohini Kosoglu, Deputy Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor to the VP
Pool has been asked to gather at 4:45p.m.
No other details at this moment...will update as soon as I can...
Pool loaded into vans.
No details yet on destination.
Still awaiting POTUS as of 5pm.
Will update once we’re rolling...
Motorcade starting rolling at 5:13pm
After a brief uneventful ride — pedestrians stopping to film motorcade on their phone— we arrived at vietnam veterans memorial at 5:20
POTUS joined by FLOTUS walked to the center point of the memorial at about 5:28pm. He was greeted with cheers from those in the area.
FLOTUS placed a bouquet of white flowers at the base of the wall, then they stood in silence for about a minute.
They then walked over to another section of the wall where they both used white paper to trace the name of a veteran. Unclear from my vantage point the name.
They left at 5:32 toward motorcade
POTUS did not speak during his brief visit to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
Before walking back to the memorial he stopped to talk with a group of people for about 10 minutes but pool was kept further away so we couldnt hear what they were saying or see who they were.
Lots of cheers from spectators in the background as POTUS made his way to motorcade.
Motorcade started rolling at 5:43p
Motorcade arrived at the WH at 5:47pm
Lid called at 5:51pm.
Enjoy the springtime weather folks!
A detail From the WH Press Office on POTUS’ visit to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial >>>
The name that POTUS did the etching of today: Dennis F. Shine