Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Silver Spring, where the pool is awaiting a visit from Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Congressman Jamie Raskin at Mary's Center. Below is background from the White House:
BACKGROUND—EMHOFF EVENT at MARY'S CENTER (3/30/21)
Embargoed until event start time: 10:00am ET
Today, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Congressman Jamie Raskin (D-MD) will visit Mary's Center, a community health center in Silver Spring, MD. Mary's Center has received aid as part of the Administration's investment of $6B to expand access to vaccines in underserved communities. Mr. Emhoff and Rep. Raskin will view a vaccination, convene a listening session with Mary's Center staff about their efforts to vaccinate their patient population, and view a mobile vaccination unit that Mary's Center will soon deploy.
Listening Session Participants
Background on Mary's Center
Mr. Emhoff entered the room at Mary's Center at 10:10 am and greeted a woman named Jessica who was about to get the vaccine. He greeted her in Spanish and asked why she thought it was important to receive the vaccine. Via a translator, she explained that she had already had Covid and thought it was important to get it now that she was eligible.
As Jessica prepared for the shot, Mr. Emhoff said, "you won't even feel it." Mr. Emhoff stood nearby and observed as she received the injection. He helped distract her by smiling (visible even behind his mask) and raising his arms to his sides in a bit of a joyful shrug. When it was over, in just a few seconds, Mr. Emhoff clapped along with the staff of Mary's Center. He thanked Jessica for receiving her vaccine in front of a crowd because, he said, it sent a great message.
Mr. Emhoff and Congressman Raskin entered the conference room upstairs at 10:26 am.
"One of the best things about this new job as Second Gentleman is I've been able to travel the country," Mr. Emhoff said, adding that on his trips he's met frontline workers and people at small businesses. When the administration first took office, he said, there were multiple crises colliding at once. But with the American Rescue Plan, he said, "Help is here — as we've been saying — and hope is here."
"There is hope, but as the president said yesterday: we cannot let our guard down," Mr. Emhoff said. "Wear your mask, social distance, and get the vaccine when it's your turn, and we can get through this."
"This is the cool part of this job: I get to stop talking and listen," he said, gesturing at the others seated (socially distanced) around the table. "I get to go home at dinner, and when the Vice President says, 'Honey, how was your day?' I can tell her what we talked about."
A White House official says this roundtable discussion is expected to last for about 30 minutes.
Rep. Raskin thanked Mr. Emhoff for coming to visit his district. He alternated between addressing Mr. Emhoff as "Mr. Emhoff" and "the Second Gentleman."
"Hope has arrived," Rep. Raskin said. He then told Mr. Emhoff that his district is home to extraordinary scientists and medical establishments, and that the vaccine is a triumph of science. "We are combatting months and years of anti-science magical thinking," he said.
"And will you send our greetings to Kamala Harris? We all love her!" Rep. Raskin said.
"The 
" Mr. Emhoff said, "I'll tell her you said hi!"
Outside at 11:04 am, Mr. Emhoff and Rep. Raskin observed a vaccine mobile unit. As he walked over, Mr. Emhoff said, "What have we got doctor?" He listened intently as the logistics of the mobile unit was explained to him. "Well, this is awesome!" Mr. Emhoff said, in conclusion.
Asked by an NBC reporter if it was still too hard and confusing for Americans to navigate vaccine enrollment, he said, "I think it's getting better." He pointed to Mary's Center and other organizations like it as part of that improvement.
Mr. Emhoff departed around 11:10 am.