 What do you got?
. On COVID, sir, do you have any theories about the origins of COVID ahead of the WHO report on the origins of COVID?
 I'm sorry, do I have——
Any theories on the origins of the coronavirus in——
 No, no, I don't. I have theories, but I'm not a scientist. I'm going to wait until the scientific community makes that judgment.
You spoke to the British Prime Minister. What was the conversation about?
 Well, we talked a lot about climate change. We talked a lot about the need also for Britain and the United States to stand together and deal with the whole notion of whether or not NATO stands together, whether we stand united and whether or not I'd be able to come, and I hope I can, to the NATO meeting in—I think it's in late June. So we talked about scheduling and when I'd come over and how we'd work that out.
Any commitments on either side during the call?
 No, there was full agreement. One of the things I suggested to do is—we talked about China and the competition they're engaging in in the Belt and Road Initiative. And I suggested we should have, essentially, a similar initiative coming from the democratic states, helping those communities around the world that, in fact, need help.
What does it mean to have Baby Beau on the plane with you, on Air Force One?
 [
] It's really great. It's really——
President Biden, you issued strong words about the Georgia voting bill——
 Not as strong as I was really thinking.
Is there anything the White House can do to protect voting rights in Georgia?
 Well, we're working on that right now. We don't know quite exactly what we can do at this point. The Justice Department is taking a look as well.
Mr. President, how does the voting issue affect your thinking on the filibuster?
 Well, look, we'll see. The question is whether or not—you know, you have to have 50 votes—51 votes to have to win to be able to move the filibuster and any change in the filibuster. And right now that doesn't exist. That doesn't exist. So, you know, look, I—the only thing I've been relatively good at in my long career in the Senate is figuring out when to move and when not to move. You've got to have the votes.
[
]—gun control?
Can we expect any gun control Executive orders?
 Pardon me?
Can we expect any gun control Executive orders soon?
 Well, we're looking at that right now. We're looking at what kind of authority I have relative to imported weapons, as well as whether or not I have any authority to—these new weapons that are being made by 3-D equipment that aren't registered as guns at all, there may be some latitude there as well.
 [
]
Thank you all very much. Thank you.
On the Suez Canal, sir. On the Suez Canal, what offer has the DOD, has the Pentagon made to help Egypt? Can you say? What all can the U.S. do to assist?
 We have equipment and capacity that most countries don't have, and we're seeing what we can do—what help we can be.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.