Across our nation, an outpouring of grief and outrage continues at the horrific violence and xenophobia perpetrated against Asian American communities, especially Asian American women and girls. As President Biden said during his first prime time address, anti-Asian violence and xenophobia is wrong, it's un-American, and it must stop.
Today, President Biden is announcing new actions to respond to the increase in acts of anti-Asian violence, and to advance safety, inclusion, and belonging for all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities. These actions build on the President's 
, issued his first week in office. In his first 65 days, the President announced that it is the official policy of this Administration to condemn anti-Asian bias and violence; visited AAPI leaders in Atlanta to denounce anti-Asian violence and gender-based violence with the Vice President; called on Congress to pass the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act introduced by Senator Hirono and Congresswoman Meng; and created a historically diverse Administration in which 15 percent of all appointees identify as Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.
Today's announcements include:
The President will re-establish and expand the initiative's initial mandate to coordinate across federal agencies to combat anti-Asian bias and violence, especially anti-Asian violence at the intersection of gender-based violence. The initiative will have an expanded mandate to promote inclusion, belonging, and opportunity for all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities. Over the coming weeks, the Administration will meet with Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander leaders and organizations to hear their recommendations for the initiative's mission, structure, and community engagement. And, the President will appoint a permanent Director to lead the Initiative in the coordination of policies across the federal government impacting Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.
The Department of Health and Human Services is allocating $49.5 million from the American Rescue Plan to a new grant program for community based, culturally specific services and programs for survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault who face additional barriers to services and safety, such as language access barriers. This program will expand services to domestic violence survivors from Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.
 President Biden established a COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force through his 
 on January 21, 2021. The Task Force is charged with making recommendations to the President to eliminate health and social disparities that result in disproportionately higher rates of exposure, illness, hospitalization and death related to COVID-19, and for preventing such inequities in the future.
To carry out this work, today HHS is announcing that the Task Force has established a subcommittee on Structural Drivers of Health Inequity and Xenophobia. This subcommittee will provide recommendations to ensure the Federal Government's response to COVID-19 mitigates anti-Asian xenophobia and bias, as established by the Presidential Memorandum Condemning and Combatting Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against Asian American and Pacific Islanders in the United States.
In addition to addressing bias and xenophobia against Asian American communities, the subcommittee will advance health equity for specific Asian American communities, including Pacific Islander and Native Hawaiian communities who have disproportionately been infected by and died from COVID-19. The subcommittee will lead policy sprints to develop actionable recommendations for advancing cultural competency, language access, and inclusion towards Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders as the United States ends and recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic.
To implement the President's week-one 
, DOJ has established a whole agency initiative to respond to anti-Asian violence. Actions to date include:
The National Endowment for the Humanities is launching a virtual library including resources for educators, civic leaders, arts and humanities institutions, and families to explore Asian American history, and address the history and ongoing challenge of anti-Asian discrimination and racism in the United States.
The National Science Foundation is taking a comprehensive approach to investing in research to understand, address, and end bias, discrimination and xenophobia, including against AAPI communities. NSF is currently supporting more than 100 grants across the country totaling more than $33 million dollars of investment. These diverse researchers are advancing innovative studies to reveal new and more effective strategies for reducing the frequency and severity of discrimination experienced by historically underrepresented groups, and reduce targeting of, and violence towards, historically underrepresented communities and individuals, including Asian American communities. This work continues NSF's history of commitment to supporting fundamental research in these vital areas.
On his first day in office, President Biden signed an Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government. As part of this Order, the President charged federal agencies with taking a comprehensive approach to advancing equity for AAPI communities. From reducing language access barriers, to improving the collection and disaggregation of data on AAPI individuals and households, the Biden Administration is committed to working hand in hand with Asian American leaders, civil rights organizations, and communities to advance fairness, opportunity, and inclusion for all.