Pool Reports by 
, 
It is a chilly but sunny Tuesday at the White House. Good morning!
President Biden is scheduled to deliver remarks on the pandemic at 4:15pm. The press briefing is slated for 12:30pm. If you have any questions that you'd like me to add to my list, please let me know.
The White House called a lunch lid until noon.
Two-minute warning for press briefing just announced.
The pool was just escorted into the State Dining room where we are awaiting the president.
The remarks will be live streamed.
The president arrived in the State Dining Room with the Vice President at 4:21pm and walked to the podium.
“Good afternoon, folks,” he said. “The Vice President and I have some good news to announce.”
He is speaking about the partnership between Johnson and Johnson and Merck as part of a “wartime effort.” He says again, he believes the admin will hit the 100 million mark in 100 days.
Remarks are being live streamed. 
Because of a "stepped up process'," Biden says there will be "enough vaccine supply for every adult in America by the end of May."
Check quotes against a transcript. You know the drill.
Asked when things will get back to normal, Biden says “I’ve been cautioned not to give an answer to that because we don’t know for sure.”
“But my hope is by this time next year we’re going to be back to normal, and before that my hope,” he added.
Your pooler asked if he thinks there’s a crisis at the border. “No, we will be able to handle it—god willing,” POTUS said as he walked out of the room.
Biden: “We can reopen schools if the right steps are taken even before employees are vaccinated.”
Biden: “We want every educator, school staff member, childcare-workers receive at least one shot by the end of the month of March.”
“We are making progress from the mess we inherited,” POTUS says before adding that “things may get worse again.” His administration, he says, “will never take this health crisis lightly.”
“Now is not the time to let our guard down,” he says of need to keep wearing masks.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 4:43pm.
Also, because I was in a hurry to get that last pool report out, I didn't clarify that the quotes about re-opening and about the border were in response to shouted questions. The quotes below that were from his speech.
Have a good one.