Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Saturday from the White House, where we have a lunch lid until 3 p.m.
President Biden does not have anything listed on his public schedule for today.
From a White House Official: Today, the President will be meeting with his national security advisors. The President will continue to monitor the impacts of the winter storms, working closely with local authorities to quickly get them assistance.
The pool has gathered and we are now waiting in vans on West Executive Avenue. The White House has not provided details on where we're headed, but your pooler will pass along any updates as soon as possible.
Motorcade is rolling from the White House at 4:33 p.m. Your pooler did not spot the president getting into his vehicle. Updates to come.
The motorcade came to a stop on New Hampshire Avenue just before 4:40 p.m. Pool is holding in vans, and we do not have information on what President Biden is doing, but on one side of the street is the Watergate Hotel, and on the other side is the Saudi Embassy.
Your pooler has asked about further details and will pass along any information we get.
From the White House: The President is visiting his close friend, Senator Bob Dole.
For context: Your pooler did not see the president exiting his vehicle, but members of his security team could be seen walking toward the Watergate side of New Hampshire Avenue. For reference, pool is holding just outside 700 New Hampshire Avenue, and a KinderCare Learning Center is visible out the window.
Motorcade is rolling from the Watergate complex at 5:48 p.m. Pool vans waited on New Hampshire Avenue while other vehicles emerged from the complex, so your pooler did not see POTUS.
Motorcade arrived at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown at 5:57 p.m. Pool managed to see the president entering the building. We are now holding outside.
President Biden emerged from church at 6:12 p.m. Asked how Sen. Dole is doing, he responded "He's doing well."
Pool hurried back to vans, and the motorcade is rolling again at 6:13 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 6:21 p.m. after an uneventful drive.
The motorcade came to a stop outside the residence, and a travel/photo lid was called at 6:22 p.m.
Per the White House, family members who joined POTUS at church today included Hallie Biden and grandchildren Natalie and Hunter (Beau's children).
Enjoy the rest of your Saturday!