Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
Hello from the White House, where it is currently snowing lightly with a dusting of snow on the ground and icy conditions throughout Washington, D.C.
I have inquired and was told so far there are no changes to the president's schedule to report due to weather.
Per guidance from last night, POTUS earlier today was scheduled to receive his daily brief and participated in a G7 virtual meeting, both of which were closed press. The guidance for the rest of the day is copied below. Feel free to reach out to me at any time with questions.
)
The pool is now gathering for the Munich Security Conference remarks.
The remarks will be live-streamed at 
There is an initial bad weather call and POTUS will motorcade from the White House to JBA if bad weather continues.
Received from the White House:
Throughout the week, the White House has been in touch with Mayors and County Officials throughout Texas to understand the dire situation on the ground and ensure they were connected to FEMA for any immediate needs, including water, and to other resources within the Federal Government.
The pool is assembled in the East Room. POTUS is not here yet
2 min warning until POTUS arrives in East Room for speech
POTUS arrived and walked to podium at 11:14. He is standing silently ready to speak.
Biden started his remarks at 11:17 AM.
He made no remarks to press before his speech.
From the White House:
Staff in the room:
Jake Sullivan, NSA
Mike Donilon, Senior Advisor
Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Director of Oval Office Operations
Ashley Williams, Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Meghan Hays, Director of Message Planning
Rebecca Neff, NSC Director of European Affairs
Ryan Harper, Deputy Chief of Staff for NSC
After speech, Biden said he will sign a major disaster declaration for Texas possibly as soon as this afternoon. Spoke with Abbott last night about FEMA relief
Biden said he wants to visit Texas and was thinking of doing so next week but he does not want his visit to be a burden. "I plan on going" he said but the exact timing sounded unclear.
More soon....
At 11:43 AM, the pool was loaded in vans for motorcading.
Pool was ushered out of East Room after 2 questions on Texas, one about additional relief and one on visiting the state.
More soon...
The motorcade started rolling at 11:58 AM.
More complete comments from Biden on TX in the East Room:
"FEMA is already there and providing support"
He Directed HhS, HUD, AG, DOD to identify other resources to help people in TX.
"I'm going to be a president for all Americans."
On major disaster declaration for TX:
"I'm going to sign that declaration once it's in front of me."
He said he would make a decision on when to go to Texas at the start of next week.
Biden was asked: Do you have any plans to visit Texas?
"The answer is yes. The question is I had planned on visiting Texas in the middle of next week but I don't want to be a burden. When the president lands in a city in America it has a long tail."
He said he has concluded he will go when he won't be a burden to people on the ground
Check quotes against transcript.
I messed up the numbering of the last 2 reports. This report is correctly labeled as #12. Apologies
The motorcade drove into JBA at 12:19 AM.
The journey was uneventful.
It does not appear to be snowing here at the moment. There is an inch of waterlogged snow covering the tarmac on much of the base but not near the plane.
Biden spoke to someone for two minutes or so before going up the steps leading onto the plane. It seemed like he turned and waved to the motorcade before going in but the view was partially obstructed by the wing.
Handing you off to the out of town pool now for Biden's trip to Michigan.
Motorcade rolling again at 12:25 PM.
Your poolers spotted Jeff Zients, the White House coronavirus coordinator, getting on Air Force One as well.
Your poolers spotted Jeff Zients, the White House coronavirus coordinator, getting on Air Force One as well.
Jen O'Malley Dillon was in the East Room this morning chatting with other staff and I also saw her board Air Force One. She is the White House deputy chief of staff.
I saw her earlier, followed up and just got confirmation from the White House she was also in the East Room although she was not on the earlier list of staff in the room sent by the White House.
Here at the White House, we have a lunch lid until 5 pm.
The pool is gathering for Biden's arrival via Marine One.
President Biden landed on the South Lawn in Marine One at 5:56 PM.
He waved to the pool and walked into the residence without stopping. He did not answer any questions.
A lid was called at 6:13 PM.
Have a wonderful weekend!