Pool Reports by 
, 
So here's something new. There is no Marine standing outside the front door, but lower press told me at about 9:45 a.m. POTUS was in the Oval Office receiving daily briefing.
Apparently, the Marine no longer is an indicator that POTUS is in the Oval.
Good morning, the snow has turned to rain.
Your pooler has been tested and is still here.
The 12:05 event will feature POTUS making an announcement about the Paycheck Protection Program.
The White House sent out a fact sheet on the subject and it is up on 
.
Here's the latest guidance. It is possible the weather could intrude.
Pool is gathered in briefing room ahead of 12:05.
Marine was at front door at 10:41, not when I checked five minutes ago. Lower Press still maintains Marine does not have to be there every time POTUS is in Oval.
Pool is in South Court Auditorium.
You can watch POTUS live at 
POTUS entered South Court Auditorium at 12:29 alone. There is a podium and small table with a glass of water.
To see what he says, you can watch here.
President Biden discussed his administration's focus on small businesses with fewer than 20 employees
He announced new PPP changes that will make sure "mom and pop businesses" will be in a better place.
Starting Wednesday, he said, there will be a
"14 day exclusive PPP application period for employers with fewer than 20 employees."
Help for one-person businesses
Urged Congress to pass American Rescue Plan
"Critics say the plan's too big." He asks them, "what would you cut?"
More quotes from the start of his remarks.
"American small businesses are hurting badly and they need help now."
Since the beginning of pandemic, some 400k small businesses have closed.
"Empty storefronts... the pizza store (where you took your family), the hardware store that always had the tool you needed."
As always, check quotes for accuracy.
POTUS left the room at 12:38.
The press briefing should start in two minutes.
You can watch it live.
Press Sec ended briefing at about 1:33 p.m.
Lunch lid called at 1:40 until 3:30.
I got this on background from the Press Office.
"In general, the Marine Sentries are posted outside the West Wing Lobby when the President is working in the Oval Office. However, the Marine Sentries are sometimes pulled for other details, including: events occurring at other locations at the White House (South Portico, Rose Garden, State Floor, South Lawn, etc.), support of other world leaders and/or guests of the President and/or First Lady, event dress rehearsals, and last minute details (such as today's direction for them to get COVID tested).
It is a misnomer that the Marine is always there when POTUS is in the Oval."
As per POTUS Proclamation noting the 500,000 American lives lost to COVID, the White House lowered the Flag to half-staff at 5 p.m. It will remain thus until sunset on Feb. 26.
I shall tweet photo. @DebraJSaunders
In short order pool will gather to watch President deliver remarks in Cross Hall on the lives lost to COVID-19.
Then POTUS, FLOTUS, VPOTUS and Second Gentleman will hold a moment of silence in the South Portico.
You can watch it all here.
POTUS entered Cross Hall at 6:02 and strode to the podium. He took off a black mask.
You can watch live.
POTUS spoke until 6:11
"The people lost were extraordinary."
Sadly many died alone
"We have to resist becoming numb to the sorrow"
Recalled the ceremony the night before Inauguration.
"You're gonna be OK, he said softly while leaning forward.
"We do take care of our own."
DJS
As always check quotes for accuracy
Tweeted photo of South Portico lit with candles
Marine Band played "Amazing Grace"
POTUS, FLOTUS, VPTUS and Second Gentleman stood silently. Over by 6:17.
Those were 500 candles for 500,000 dead.
Lid called at 6:28