Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a sunny Wilmington, Del. The White House has called a lunch lid until noon.
As a reminder, there are no public events scheduled for POTUS today and tomorrow.
The White House passes this along --
The President is spending the weekend at his home in Wilmington, DE. He will be spending time with family and watching the Super Bowl.
Today the White House will launch a new effort for the President to regularly communicate directly with the American people. The inaugural edition will be a conversation between the President and Michelle, who lives in Roseville, CA and lost her job at a start-up clothing company because of the pandemic, and will publish at 11am ET across digital platforms— on White House Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTube & on POTUS Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
The White House passes along that the name of the woman featured in the video that was released at 11 a.m. should be Michele, w/ one "L."
The White House also says that "[a]s for the frequency, the President will be speaking to those affected by the pandemic regularly."
Wilmington, Del.
At 3 p.m., the motorcade picked up POTUS and was on the move to an undisclosed location.
New Castle, Del.
At 3:13 p.m., the motorcade arrived at Delaware Orthopaedic Specialists in Wilmington. POTUS stepped outside, wearing a greenish-brown sports coat, and entered through the clinic's front doors.
The White House sends along this statement —
Statement from Dr. Kevin O'Connor, Physician to the President:
The President will receive a regularly scheduled 10 week post-injury weight-bearing X-ray at the Delaware Orthopaedic Specialists, where he was evaluated initially. The President's symptoms have improved as expected, and he is adhering to a strict physical therapy regimen. As we explained initially, sprains of the foot can sometimes be a more significant injury than the bony fractures which accompany them. This x-ray is to check to assure that he has achieved good ligamentous stability.
Pool is holding in vans.
The body of the previous pool report should note that Delaware Orthopaedic Specialists is in New Castle.
New Castle, Del.
At 3:42 p.m., a masked POTUS stepped outside from Delaware Orthopaedic Specialists and stepped into the Beast. We're now on the move again to another undisclosed location.
Delaware Orthopaedic Specialists is located in NEWARK, not the other cities that your pooler incorrectly listed. Your pooler regrets the error(s) and pledges to study a map of the First State in her free time.
Wilmington, Del.
The motorcade arrived at POTUS' home in Wilmington at 4:06 p.m. Spotted as we entered his neighborhood were two young girls, holding dolls, waving excitedly at the motorcade while accompanied by an adult woman with a stroller.
After dropping off POTUS, the White House has called a lid as of 4:07 p.m. Happy rest of your night, all.
The White House passes along this post-lid statement from POTUS physician —
Statement from Dr. Kevin O'Connor, Physician to the President:
The President received routine follow up x-rays today. Both small fractures of his foot are completely healed. These films were obtained while standing, so we could further assess that his ligamentous stability remains fully intact and strong. This injury has healed as expected, and he will return to his usual exercise regimen.