Pool Reports by 
, 
President Biden's motorcade linked with waiting pool vans on secluded, snowy park roads near Camp David at 1:46 p.m.
We're rolling toward Hagerstown Regional Airport for the short AF1 flight to JBA.
The president will head from JBA to WH by motorcade due to bad weather.
It is about 30 degrees near Camp David and overcast with a foggy haze.
There is more snow on the ground than in D.C.
The president's motorcade arrived at Hagerstown Regional Airport at 2:23 p.m.
President Biden, in cap and leather jacket, entered the smaller AF1 with Flotus, in pink coat. Potus saluted at top of stairs.
Earlier, the motorcade passed through rural, snow-covered towns while a light rain fell.
Some bystanders filmed the motorcade or watched outside their cars, including a woman with a sign made out of what looked like black marker and a foam dinner plate. It said "Biden" and then "Harris" underneath but I couldn't make out the rest.
One household waved small American flags from the sidewalk.
One house set back from the road had a blue "Trump" banner on a deck. Another house had a big "Trump: Keep America Great!" Sign in the front yard.
Wheels up for JBA shortly.
AF1 lifted from Hagerstown at 2:37 p.m. and landed at JBA at 3:05 p.m. after an uneventful flight.
President Biden and FLOTUS exited AF1 and waved to press; they talked for a while with crew and who appeared to be family (seeking IDs), while a small dog happily jumped around and hopped in the president's car at first before he was directed to the correct vehicle.
- The president appears to be wearing and carrying the tan "Presidential Retreat Camp David" cap his granddaughter Naomi got for him; she had tweeted about it.
- They were playing CNN on screens in the AF1 cabin ahead of the press cabin
(Thank you to co-pooler Seung Min Kim for spotting both items)
- Also, Reuters' Jeff Mason spotted POTUS and FLOTUS stop in the vestibule of the plane upon boarding and then look at cabins in each direction, kind of taking in the scene
Rolling to WH at 3:18 p.m.
From the White House:
With the President and the First Lady on AF1:
Naomi Biden
Peter Neal
Naomi Biden's dog
POTUS motorcade arrived at WH at 3:40 p.m. after an uneventful, 22-minute ride.
Pooler briefly spotted POTUS and FLOTUS entering the WH together.
Onlookers, mostly families, filmed the motorcade closer to WH.
The WH called a lid earlier in the day.
WH confirmed travel lid. In-town lid was earlier.
WH confirms that Naomi Biden's dog is named Charlie