Pool Reports by 
, 
Morning, all. I will be your print pooler for today, 2/10.
Your pooler has taken the standard coronavirus test this morning.
On the schedule: Briefing with Jen Psaki, POTUS trip to the Pentagon.
The White House has told the pool that the press briefing is now scheduled for 11:50 a.m.
A two minute warning was called over the loudspeaker at 11:50.
The White House shares the below change to the president's schedule.
UPDATED:
In the afternoon, the President will deliver remarks on the administration's response to the coup in Burma in the South Court Auditorium. The President's remarks will be pooled press.
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the administration's response to the coup in Burma
South Court Auditorium
Pooled Press (Gather Time 12:40 PM– Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
11:50 AM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki
Press secretary Jen Psaki walked into the briefing room at 11:53 a.m.
The press pool has arrived in the South Court Auditorium for POTUS remarks on the administration's response to the coup in Burma.
There is a lectern set up on a stage in the auditorium. The presidential seal is attached to the lectern and on screens to the left, right, and back of it.
There are three American flags on the stage.
Will advise when/if we get a two-minute warning.
A two-minute warning was called at 1:20 p.m. for the president's remarks on Burma.
POTUS and VPOTUS walked out at 1:22 p.m.
He began speaking almost immediately after walking on stage. He is standing behind the lectern. A glass of water is to his right.
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 1:25 p.m.
VPOTUS and POTUS exited the room immediately after.
The pool is loaded into vans and on the way to the Pentagon. Your pooler didn't see POTUS when exiting the auditorium.
The motorcade arrived at the Pentagon at 1:41 pm. The press pool exited our vans and walked to a set of steps.
POTUS exited his car at 1:42 p.m. with VPOTUS. He was greeted by Defense Secretary Austin.
Pool is now holding inside the Pentagon.
A two-minute warning was called for POTUS remarks at Pentagon at 3:08 p.m.
Some details from the room:
The stage has a lectern with the presidential seal. Four American flags are behind the lectern. Reporters are seated in chairs that are spread out for social distancing.
POTUS walked into the room where the press pool is holding at 3:10 p.m.
He is with VPOTUS and Defense Secretary Austin.
Defense Secretary Austin is speaking first. He began speaking at 3:10 p.m.
Attached is a photo of Secretary Austin introducing POTUS and VPOTUS.
Secretary Austin stopped speaking at 3:13 p.m. An aide adjusted a stool behind the lectern and then VPOTUS stepped onto the stool and behind the lectern.
VPOTUS began speaking at 3:13pm
[
]
VPOTUS stopped speaking at 3:18 p.m.
An aide wiped down the lectern. Secretary Austin began speaking again a few seconds later. He stopped speaking at 3:20 p.m.
An aide wiped down the lectern again. POTUS started speaking at 3:21 p.m.
POTUS stopped speaking at 3:32 p.m.
He took a question from a reporter. The question was about punishing China for withholding information about the coronavirus.
"I'm interested in getting all the facts," POTUS said.
POTUS arrived for tour of African Americans in Service Corridor at 3:44 p.m.
He was joined by POTUS, VPOTUS, Defense Secretary, and Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The names of the greeters/tour guides are (per WH press office):
Some highlights from tour:
The group spent a few minutes looking at a display about WWII, which included information about the Tuskegee Airmen and African American tank battalions and infantry replacements.
The guide spoke about desegregating the military. (Pooler couldn't hear whole presentation.)
The pool was ushered away at 3:59 p.m.
The motorcade departed the Pentagon at 4:10 p.m. Pooler did not see president before he exited building.
The pool vans arrived back at the White House at 4:18 p.m. A travel/photo lid was called at 4:20 p.m.