Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House where it's 39 degrees and cloudy.
President Biden will be traveling to Milwaukee later today for a CNN town hall.
The 5:30 pm South Lawn departure is the first pool event on the schedule. His 12:30 pm daily briefing with VPOTUS is closed press. Pooler will let you know if anything changes.
Press secretary Jen Psaki briefs at 11:30 a.m.
Please reach out with any questions.
The press briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki will now be at 12 PM.
The press briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki will now be at 12:15 PM.
The two minute warning for the press briefing was given at 12:14 p.m.
The White House called a lunch lid until 4 p.m.
President Biden exited the White House from the South Portico at 5:34 pm.
He took two questions. One on why he's going to Wisconsin. Said he wanted to go as a lot going on there and Anderson Cooper asked.
Biden also was asked about McConnell saying covid relief would unify Republicans. He said: May unify Republicans but will hurt Americans bad.
It was very hard to hear over chopper. Will send full transcript soon.
Joining POTUS on Marine One:
Bruce Reed
Yohannes Abraham
Stephen Goepfert
Marine One was wheels up at 5:38 pm.
Handing off to out of town pool.
Here are the full remarks President Biden made at departure:
Asked why he was going to Wisconsin: "Because there's a lot going on in Wisconsin. They're as cold as the devil up there. They got a lot to deal with and I - and Anderson Cooper said he wanted to do a town hall up there and I'm happy to do it. So thank you all. Stay warm."
Asked about Mitch McConnell saying that opposing COVID relief will unify Republicans: "It may unify Republicans but it will hurt America badly."
Marine One was wheels down on the South Lawn at 12:40 am.
President Biden stopped for a quick chat.
"You're in the cold so late. It's a hell of a job description you have," he told the pool.
He declined to clarify which living president hasn't reached out to him - a comment he made in his CNN town hall. "There's only one I haven't spoke to," he said when asked to clarify who.
The White House called a travel photo lid at 12:44 am. Good night all!