Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House.
There are no changes to the overnight guidance. I will let you know if anything changes.
[
]
Pool is gathering in the briefing room for the following 09.45 event
Pool entered Oval at 10:05
POTUS and VP sat in front of roaring fire
COMMENTED first on jobs figures.
Only 6000 private jobs created." At that rate... It will take
"10 years to get to full employment."
"I appreciate you all coming over and the urgency..." He said to Dem leadership
"This is about people's lives... They are really hurting.... Suicdes are up"
"People really feel in a hole."
Lesson of the Obama years:
" We can't do too much here but we can do too little "
Pool.out at 10:08
Check quotes against video. More to come
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions. Some words inaudible and please check against video
POTUS:
"We're gonna be talking about the recovery plan but we saw the jobs report.
"Only 6000 private sector jobs been created. At that rate it's going to take 10 years before we get to full unemployment
"That's not hyperbole that's a fact.
"We're going to be in a situation where it takes a long, long time.
"I appreciate you all coming over because … and the urgency with which you are moving.
"This is about people's lives, this is not just about numbers
"It's about people lives…"
"They are really hurting. Just look at all the number of people who are needing and seeking mental health help… Suicides up… People are…"People are really feel in a hole."
More to come
Again, please check against vid. Dem lawmakers were spread out around the room, socially distanced. Pelosi on sofa to POTUS's right. Have asked WH for full list of names. VP and POTUS sat on chairs in front of lit fire.
POTUS continued:
"They don't know how to get out. You've given them a lot of hope. A lot of hope.
"As we say in southern Delaware, by the grace of God…[inaudible] , you can really begin to do something consequential.
"So I want to thank you all…
"President Obama put me in charge of the recovery act and it was hard as hell to get the votes for it to begin with. Then it was hard as hell to get even the number we got.
"The one thing we learned is we can't do too much here. we can do too little, we can do too little….
"The end result is not just maco-economic impact on the economy and our ability to compete internationally, it's people's lives. Real live people are hurting and we can fix it. We can fix it and the irony and all ironies is if we help them we are also helping our competitive capacity through the remainder of this decade.
"It's real. We've got a chance to do something big here.
"Thank you for last night and yesterday…
WH sends this along:
President Biden and Vice President Harris are meeting this morning with Speaker Pelosi, Majority Leader Hoyer, Majority Whip Clyburn, and Chairs of the House Committees most involved in the drafting of the American Rescue Plan. Below is the list of attendees joining the President and the Vice President in the Oval Office:
Pool gathering at Palm Room doors for remarks in the State Dining Room
Remarks will be carried live in the usual places, so pool will bring you additional color and detail where warranted.
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the state of the economy and the need for the American Rescue Plan; THE VICE PRESIDENT and the Secretary of the Treasury also attend
State Dining Room
POTUS entered at 12:22
Thanks everyone for patience
"We had a good but very long meeting."
Remarks expected to be about 15 minutes.
Lectern is set up directly beneath chandelier, with POTUS standing in front of two flags and the fire place.
Sec'y Yellen is about eight foot across from POTUS's left shoulder and VP takes up position to the right.
White House informs us that meeting with House Democrats wrapped up at about 11:50. Pool was already on the move so was not able to monitor appearances at the sticks.
POTUS wrapped up at 12:34, ignored shouted questions about who will get checks, and departed smartly with VP and Sec'y Yellen.
to Briefing
Until 3:30pm
Pool is set up by residence for departure, running a bit behind schedule.
POTUS emerged alone from residence at 5:15pm. He waved to pool but ignored shouted questions about his trip.
He boarded Marine One and spoke briefly to crew.
Annie Tomasini, Steve Ricchetti, Yohannes Abraham and Stephen Goepfert boarded a moment later.
Wheels up at 5:19pm.