Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'll be your print pooler today. It's 34 degrees and snowing here at the White House. Your pooler has been COVID tested.
No changes to the president's schedule so far. We have a briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki at 1:30 pm and POTUS will sign the executive orders on immigration at 5pm in the Oval Office.
I'll update you with any changes but please feel free to reach out with questions.
The WH has added a COVID briefing at 12:15pm with COVID-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zients.
 Today at 12:15 PM ET, COVID-19 Response Coordinator Jeff Zients will hold a press briefing to give operational updates on the federal government's COVID-19 pandemic response.
To join the briefing at 12:15 PM ET, please register 
.
Lunch lid called until 1:15pm.
President Biden is meeting today with the Senate Democratic Caucus to discuss the American Rescue Plan, per a WH official.
The press briefing has been moved to 1:45pm
Two-minute warning for the press briefing.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki began the briefing at 1:48 PM.
A reminder the briefing is being livestreamed here: 
Press Secretary Psaki concluded the briefing after about 48 minutes at 2:37pm.
Press Secretary Psaki concluded the briefing after about 48 minutes at 2:37pm.
Pool entered at 5:25 pm. POTUS was seated behind the Resolute Desk with Vice President Harris and Secretary Mayorkas standing behind him.
Begins by offering condolences to families of FBI Agents.
"Every family dreads the possibly of receiving that call," he said.
"My heart aches for the families."
On EOs - I'm not making new law, I'm eliminating bad policy.
More TK
We have a dinner lid until 9pm.
Will send more remarks as I listen back but please check the tapes. Here's a few more:
POTUS spoke for a total of five minutes, outlining the three executive orders before signing each.
"Our hearts go out to the families of the FBI special agents"
"I was briefed on this tragedy earlier in the day and I know the FBI gathered information how this happened, what happened. But I can't imagine how these families are feeling today.
POTUS said the families of those "in a combat zone, in the military or an FBI agent or a police officer… dreads the possibility of that call, of receiving that phone call."
Said he's not had an opportunity to contact the families of the FBI agents
"By and large the vast vast majority of men and women are decent and honorable people who put themselves on the line.
Congratulates Secretary Mayorkas, standing to the right behind him, and says "I'm looking forward to his leadership and working with Congress on a lot of issues, including immigration bill that has I think great support in both chambers."
"I want to make it clear. There's a lot of talk, with good reason, about the number of executive orders that I sign. I'm not making the law. I'm eliminating bad policy."
POTUS said the previous president "issued executive orders that are very counterproductive to our security, counterproductive to our country."
"We're going to work to undo the moral and national shame of the previous administration and literally, not figuratively, rip children from the arms of their families the mothers and fathers of the border with no plan. None whatsoever to reunify children who are still in custody and their parents."
Again, please check against audio.
"The second action addresses the root causes of migration to our southern border. And the third action, the third order to be signed order is a full review of the previous administration's harmful and counterproductive immigration policies."
On the second order, POTUS says it creates "a comprehensive regional framework to address the causes of migration and manage migration throughout the Northern and Central America, to provide a safe and orderly processing of asylum seekers at the United States border."
On third order, POTUS says it "restoring faith in our immigration system, and strengthening immigration and inclusion efforts for new Americans."
"My grandfather said the grace of God and the good will of neighbors will reunite these children and reestablish our reputation of being a haven for people in need."
Motorcade rolling at 9:47pm for an undisclosed location. Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS before we left.
Motorcade arrived at the US Capitol at 9:56pm.
POTUS is headed inside, where fallen USCP officer Brian Sicknick is lying in honor in the building's Rotunda.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and other members of congressional leadership held a ceremonial arrival from the East Center Steps of the Capitol to the Rotunda at 9:30 pm for Sicknick, who died after the Jan. 6 siege. A viewing period will be held from 10pm on for members of the USCP.
From a WH official: "This evening, the President and the First Lady paid their respects to Capitol Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick as he lies in honor at the Capitol Rotunda."
At 10:24 pm the motorcade is rolling from the US Capitol.
Pool was stationed in vans outside the Capitol during the 28-minute stop and did not see POTUS and FLOTUS before we left.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 10:33pm.
White House called a travel photo lid at 10:36pm.
Have a great night!