Pool Reports by 
, 
Checking in ahead of Vice President Harris' virtual economic roundtable with Treasury Secretary Yellen and local Black Chambers of Commerce, set to be held in the South Court Auditorium at 3pm.
The event will be streamed (link below), but I'll send along relevant color as I spot it.
Some background from VP's office:
Again, you can follow along here: 
VP and Sec. Yellen entered the auditorium at 3:07pm ET and opened the discussion at 3:08pm ET.
VP's office informed the pool that every Black Chamber of Commerce in the country was invited with more than 140 choosing to participate. I'll send over a rough list as soon as I can count/ID different chapters.
The stage is set up in a similar fashion to the transition briefings held at The Queen in DE... photo for reference: 
Again, you can follow along via the White House's stream: 
... at 3:55pm ET.
VP and Sec. Yellen fielded four questions after delivering opening remarks. Several questions focused on failures of previous COVID stimulus programs (including Paycheck Protection Program) and how the ARP would differ, specifically in directing funds and support to Black-owned businesses.
The final question centered on "what comes next" in terms of pandemic relief. VP first maintained the need to pass ARP now so that relief can get out to families and small businesses ASAP. She added that proponents of the administration's forthcoming infrastructure push would then allow for both substantial job creation while also giving existing businesses tools to thrive (broadband/internet expansion, transportation improvements et al.)
After the questions, VP stressed to all participants the need to get all Americans vaccinated — "We've got to remind people the vaccines are safe. The vaccines will save lives" — and asked for their help in messaging around vaccine efforts.
List of questioners, per VP's office
— Cathy Adams, President, Oakland African American Chamber of Commerce (Oakland, CA)
— Melvin Coleman, President, Atlanta Black Chamber (Atlanta, GA)
— Kelisha Garrett, Vice President of Operations, Louisiana Chamber of Commerce Foundation (New Orleans, LA)
— Charles O'Neill, President, Texas Association of African American Chamber of Commerce (Dallas, TX)