Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from 1600 Pennsylvania. I'll be your print pooler for the day.
Quiet so far here. Looking ahead, we've got the 12:30 p.m. briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki and NEC Director Brian Deese and then the one pooled event at 2:45 p.m. when President Biden is set to deliver remarks and sign two executive orders to bolster economic relief for families and workers affected by the pandemic.
Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
There is now lunch lid until noon.
There is now lunch lid until noon.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki and NEC Director Brian Deese will be out in two minutes, we've just been told over the loudspeaker. You can follow along live in the usual places.
The briefing wrapped at 2:05 p.m. after an hour and two minutes.
Pool is holding outside the State Dining Room for the POTUS remarks and EO signing, which was scheduled for 2:45 but will likely be a few minutes delayed.
Pool was ushered into the State Dining Room at 3:00 p.m. to set up.?
Two minute warning to POTUS at 3:03.
POTUS and VPOTUS entered at 3:04 p.m. from a rear door and walked to stand behind a lectern that is positioned in front of the fireplace, over which a portrait of Lincoln hangs. The table for him to sign the EOs is to our right of the lectern with two leather folios and two ballpoint pens atop it.
Will send quotes and color ASAP.
POTUS began speaking promptly at 3:05 p.m., reading remarks via teleprompter about his EOs to bolster relief for needy families and federal workers and contractors affected by the COVID crisis.
VPOTUS stood, wearing a face mask, over Biden's right shoulder.
He also spoke broadly about the need for a more sweeping response with his American Rescue Plan. He noted its drawn support from bipartisan economists and Wall Street analysts, citing Moody's projection that its adoption would generate 7.5 million jobs this year.
He also name-checked the former NEA to President Trump, Kevin Hassett, noting his expression of support for the package.
"This almost doesn't have a partisan piece to it."
I believe this was carried live on some networks, but a bit more of the remarks...
After ticking off dismal unemployment numbers, he said: "This cannot be who we are as a country. These are not the values of our nation. We cannot, will not let people be evicted."
A few quotes:
"We have to act and act now."
"We must act decisively and boldly to grow the economy."
POTUS dismissed Republicans' deficit worries, arguing that "investments in our people are going to help our competitiveness as a nation."
He also addressed those who have questioned the need for more stimulus checks, after Congress just approved more relief.
"$600 is not enough," he said.
"If we act now, our economy will be stronger both in the short and long term."
"The bottom line is this: we're in a national emergency. We've got to act like we're in a national emergency."
POTUS moved and sat down at the table beside the lectern at 3:22 and signed the two EOs enclosed in the leather folios.
As he rose to leave, POTUS responded to a question about his reaction to Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell's proposal to begin an impeachment trial for President Trump in February.
"I haven't heard the details of it...but I do think having some time to get the administration up and running...[is better]," he responded, trailing off.
He also thanked the Senate for confirming Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin earlier in the day and for working to get his cabinet in place.
No response to another question about the filibuster.
POTUS and VPOTUS walked out at 3:24.
Pool ushered out at 3:26.
Please check all quotes against transcript.
A travel photo lid was called at 3:28 p.m. just after pool had returned to the west wing.
Have a good weekend, all.