Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning and welcome to the first full day of the Biden administration.
Your pooler has been COVID tested and banded.
This morning the plan starts with pooled press spray in Blue Room where POTUS, VPOTUS and their spouse watch the Virtual Presidential Inaugural Prayer Service at 10:00 a.m.
The pool is gathering at 9:40 a.m.
Pool was ushered into Blue Room at 10:16. No questions asked or taken.
As photo will show, POTUS, FLOTUS sat together, with three seated behind them. (One is Finnegan Biden, according to Peter Doocy) and two in third row. I will send a photo next.
VPOTUS and Doug Emhoff sat distanced in their own row.
Peter also noted that Hunter and his wife walked in the back of the room.
They all stood as Patti La Belle sang "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
Pool ushered out at 10:19.
Virtual Presidential Inaugural Prayer Service was in State Dining Room
Yes, I will never hear the end of this. Pooler got it wrong. Patti La Belle sang National Anthem.
Yes, I will never hear the end of this. Pooler got it wrong. Patti La Belle sang National Anthem.
Pool is gathering for this shortly.
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his administration's COVID-19 response, and signs executive orders and other presidential actions; THE VICE PRESIDENT also attends
Dr Fauci came by State Dining Room before meeting. He had his second vaccine shot Tuesday.
"Starting now you're going to see it" he said when asked about 1 million shots a day.
Meeting starting at 2:47
There were five tables, one for POTUS, VP, Dr Fauci, COVID task force coordinator Jeffrey Zients and deputy Nancy Quillian.
Asked by press if he had been vaccinated, Zients answered yes
You can catch the event live at 
Pool was whisked out of State Dining Room at 3:08.
When AP's Zeke Miller asked POTUS if his goal of 100 m vaccines (over 100 days) is high enough, Biden responded, "When I announced it, you all said it's not possible. Come on, give me a break, man."
2 minute warning has been called.
You know what to do. (Watch it live.)
I forgot to mention that Dr. Fauci is leading off today's briefing. You can watch live.
And the briefing is over.
Like I said, Travel Photo Lid at 5:33.