Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the Trump White House in Washington, DC, where it is currently a mostly sunny, 42-degree morning. On Capitol Hill today, lawmakers appear on track to soon make Donald J. Trump, the former host of Celebrity Apprentice who is also the soon-to-be former president, the only POTUS in history to be impeached twice by the House. Currently, the president has no items listed on today's public schedule released by the White House press office, except for the now-boilerplate claim of: "President Trump will work from early in the morning until late in the evening. He will make many calls and have many meetings."
Your pooler has taken a COVID-19 test at the White House earlier this hour. We are one week out from the end of the Trump era, with President-elect and obvious winner of the 2020 election Joe Biden's inauguration set for Jan. 20. As of 10:42 a.m. ET on Wednesday, President Trump has yet to acknowledge that he clearly got beat fair and square.
At around 12:15 p.m. ET today, a U.S. Marine was spotted by reporters standing guard outside of West Wing entrance, which typically indicates that the president is in the Oval Office at that time.
I confirmed with Chris Sheridan, AJ English White House producer who was out there at the time, that the U.S. Marine indeed came outside around 12:15 p.m. ET, to stand guard outside the West Wing entrance, typically indicating President Trump was in the Oval Office.
At around 12:25 p.m. ET today, the same Marine went back indoors.
Hi, all,
At 12:30 p.m. ET today, a lunch lid was called by the Trump White House, lasting until 1:30 p.m. ET.
Thank you.
Shortly before 1:12 p.m. ET today, the U.S. Marine, standing guard outside the West Wing entrance, was spotted again by reporters. This typically means President Trump is back in the Oval Office.
Over on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, proceedings for the second impeachment of this president are continuing apace.
At 1:20 p.m. ET today, the aforementioned U.S. Marine standing outside the West Wing entrance went back indoors. A Marine's presence there outdoors typically means the president is in the Oval Office.
At 1:25 p.m. ET, the aforementioned U.S. Marine was back at post outside. You know the drill.
Not long before 3:40 p.m. ET this afternoon, the U.S. Marine guarding the West Wing entrance headed back inside.
At 4:28 p.m. ET today, your pooler once again spotted the U.S. Marine had returned to the post outside the entrance to the West Wing. This typically happens when President Trump is in the Oval Office. As that happened, the U.S. House was wrapping up its vote on impeaching Donald J. Trump for a second time in roughly a year.
Shortly after 4:35 p.m. ET, the House made Donald Trump the only president in American history to have been impeached twice.
For those of you keeping track at home: At 6:25 p.m. ET tonight, the U.S. Marine was no longer outside the West Wing entrance. Your pooler did not see exactly what time the Marine had gone back inside.
At 8:04 p.m. ET tonight, the Trump White House called a travel/photo lid.
Have a good evening, everyone. Be safe and healthy. Peace out.