Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning, I'll be your pooler for the day.

The in-house pool just got their COVID tests. The president currently has no public events scheduled. 


Passing along readout on Trump's call with King Mohammed VI:

Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with his Majesty King Mohammed VI of Morocco. The US -Morocco friendship is rooted in our shared belief in the promise of peace, stability, and economic opportunity and has endured since Morocco became the first country to recognize the United States in 1777. The President reaffirmed his support for Morocco's serious, credible, and realistic autonomy proposal as the only basis for a just and lasting solution to the dispute over the Western Sahara territory and as such the President recognized Moroccan sovereignty over the entire Western Sahara territory. The leaders also discussed cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus, ways to minimize its economic impact, and common interests in critical regional issues. During the conversation the King agreed to resume diplomatic relations between Morocco and Israel and expand economic and cultural cooperation to advance regional stability. The President thanked His Majesty for his leadership and vision,and recognized the strong bonds of friendship which have long existed between the people and governments of Morocco and the United States. 


?Lunch lid called until 1pm.

Also, your intrepid pooler tried to get the invite list for tonight's congressional ball but was told that will not be released. 


Just heard from Judd that Trump's lunch with state AGs has ended.

Still no plans thus far for Trump to talk to press. 


Dozens and dozens of administration staffers just evacuated government buildings as part of a scheduled fire drill, which I realize is not that interesting but I thought I'd pass along just in case any of our more poetic colleagues are searching for a metaphor. 


Dinner lid is called until 8pm. Uneventful day so far. The Congressional Ball is this evening but it is closed to press. 


?Another action-packed day comes to an end as a lid was called a few minutes ago. I don't have the exact time because it was outside looking for stray gala guests when they announced it over the intercom.

Will pass on post-lid readouts if any come in tonight. Happy Hanukkah, everyone. 