Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning from beautiful, breezy Palm Beach on the final day of this (choose your adjective) year.

President Trump's motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago at 11:09am for the airport. Your pooler could not spot the president through the dark windows of his SUV.

The motorcade came to a slow crawl as we approached crowds of supporters standing along Southern Blvd. There are many more people lining the road than usual (a few hundred people, by my guess). Some were waving American flags and pro-Trump signs. There were also a few with Biden signs, with one saying "Biden won you lost get over it." My eagle eyed co-pooler Emily Goodin spotted a small group wearing shirts with the Proud Boys black and yellow insignia.

The pool was tested for Covid this morning. 


?At 11:21am President Trump and the First Lady boarded Air Force One (the 747) without making remarks to the press.

The president wore a suit and red tie and the First Lady wore white pants and a black jacket, and waved before boarding.

The pool spotted Avi Berkowitz and Johnny McEntee also boarding the plane.

We are rolling down the tarmac now. See you in Washington, D.C. where the weather I hear is not as nice. 


?At 1:12pm Air Force One touched down at Andrews Air Force Base.

There were no visitors to our cabin on this quick flight back to DC. TVs were tuned to Fox News. 


?President Trump and the First Lady, standing side by side, walked down the steps of Air Force One. The president gave a salute at the end of the stairs and the couple made a pivot for Marine One.

The First Lady changed into boots and a gray coat for chilly Washington.

Marine One is taking off now for the White House.

Wishing you and your loved ones a very happy and healthy New Year. See you in 2021. 


Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good afternoon from the White House.

Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 1:36 PM. POTUS stepped off the plane at 1:38 PM, followed by the First Lady. The president wore a suit and red tie and the First Lady wore a black jacket with black shoes.

Press shouted questions about Iran and the president's plans for inauguration. The president, while holding hands with the First Lady, did not stop to answer questions.

At 1:39 PM, they both entered the White House.

Temperature is 54 today, with cloudy skies and possible showers to come. 


?A lunch lid has been called until 6PM. Will keep you posted on any updates I hear. 


?We've just got word of a travel/photo lid.

Happy 2021, all! 