Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning from Palm Beach where it's 61 degrees and rising. I'll be your pooler today.

The motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago at 9:38 am for an undisclosed location. Pool did not see POTUS before the motorcade left.

No changes to the schedule so far but please feel free to reach out with any questions.

Pool received a COVID test this morning before arriving at Mar-a-Lago. 


?POTUS arrived at his Trump International Golf Course at 9:47 am after an uneventful ride.

Pool saw just a few people along the route to the golf club - two supporters waved flags while another held a sign that read "crazy f**k."

Pooler has inquired about POTUS schedule details and who is joining him on the golf course today. Will pass along any details I've received. 


?POTUS left Trump International Golf Course in West Palm Beach at 1:52 pm. POTUS was spotted wearing a white shirt and red hat as the motorcade left.

A handful of protesters stood across the street outside of the entrance of the golf club. One protester held a sign that said, "Biden won, you lost. Get over it" along with two large Biden-Harris flags. Another sign read "no martial law." 


?The motorcade pulled into Mar-a-Lago at 2:01 pm.

About a dozen supporters were seen waving signs and Trump 2020 flags on the road leading into to Mar-a-Lago.

Pool is holding in parking lot outside Mar-a-Lago.
No updates to the schedule but will pass along anything I receive. 


?We have a lunch lid until 5:45 pm. 


?My apologies, please note FPPO the lunch lid has been extended to 6pm. 


?As you may have seen, POTUS tweeted "good news" regarding the COVID relief bill.

Your pooler has inquired about whether he is planning to sign it /has signed it and has received no updates.

We're holding outside Mar-a-Lago and I'll provide any details I receive. 


?Motorcade is rolling from Mar-a-Lago for an undisclosed location at 7:31 pm.

Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS before we left. 


?The motorcade arrived at Trump International Golf Club at 7:40 pm amid a downpour. The ride was uneventful other than navigating torrential rain.

Pool is holding across the street in the public library parking lot.

Pool has not been given any updates on whether POTUS plans to sign the bill tonight but will send along any details as soon as we hear. 


?As you may have seen, WH spokesman Judd Deere has confirmed reports POTUS has signed the relief bill.


He also tweeted a statement:
Statement from President @realDonaldTrump: "As President, I have told Congress that I want far less wasteful spending and more money going to the American people in the form of $2,000 checks per adult and $600 per child." 


?POTUS signed the package before he left Mar-a-Lago for the golf club tonight, per WH spokesman Judd Deere. 


?Motorcade is rolling from Trump International Golf Course at 9:30 pm.

Pool did not see POTUS before we left. 


?Motorcade arrived back at Mar-a-Lago at 9:41pm.

Pool did not see POTUS and is holding in a parking lot across the street. 


?We have a travel/photo lid at 9:46pm.

Have a good night, folks. 