Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning and happy Sunday. It's currently a perfect 52 degrees at the White House, and pool just received COVID tests. Y'all know the drill. No news is good news.

POTUS has no public events on his schedule, but I'll update with changes as we're notified. As always, feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions. 


Pool was called to gather at the Palm Room doors at 9:30am. We're in the vans now for an unscheduled movement 👀-- 


POTUS, wearing a red campaign hat and a navy blue quarter-zip, hopped in a USSS SUV at 10:01am. Motorcade pulled out of the WH gates at 10:04am. 


Motorcade pulled through the gate at Trump National Golf Club in Sterling, VA at 10:52am.

A small group of Trump supporters (6) gathered outside, holding American and Trump 2020 flags. One woman held a sign reading "Don't Dilute My Vote."

Of note, motorcade took the scenic route out of the city — looped GW Parkway to 495 instead of heading down 66 per usual. AP's Darlene Superville astutely noted that the route change was to avoid road closures caused by the Sunday morning implosion/cleanup of the Roslyn Holiday Inn: 


Pool is now pulling into the Lucia's parking lot to hold. 


The crowd of POTUS' supporters has effectively quadrupled in size in the past 3 hours with new additions including "Voter Fraud" and "Stop The Steal" signs.

"Uncle Jam" — dressed in red, white, and blue — walked over to the press vans and sang "Trumpslide." Shoutout Fleetwood Mac. Pool cams caught footage so keep your eyes peeled for that





Gathered crowd broke out a chant of "FIGHT FOR TRUMP" while we were waiting for the motorcade. A number cars exiting and entering the club stopped to engage with protesters.

The rest of the motorcade drove through the gates at 2:36pm earning cheers of "We're Gonna Win!" from supporters. We're now rolling back to DC. 


Motorcade pulled back onto the WH grounds at 3:19pm. For what it's worth, motorcade took the usual 495 -> 66 route back to DC.

One clarifying note on report #6. There were no counter-protesters/Biden supporters present outside the gates... so would have been more accurate to say cars "stopped to engage with Trump supporters"

"A number cars exiting and entering the club stopped to engage with protesters." 


... called at 3:47pm, after what might very well might be the last ever pool day from Lucia's.

Have a great rest of your Sunday, y'all! 