Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning — I'll be your out of town pooler for the President Biden's trip to Howell, Michigan today. Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard AF1.
Here's the schedule for today's travel:
And re-sharing the below policy memo passed along by the White House last night:
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 October 4, 2021
 Background on IIJA and BBB for the President's Visit to Michigan
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a generational investment in Michigan's infrastructure and resilience.
The Build Back Better agenda will make life better for millions of working families in Michigan.
Marine One touched down at JBA at 11:51. President Biden stepped out 11:54 and was greeted by Colonel William "Chris" McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander. POTUS boarded Air Force One at 11:55 am. He did not take any questions.
AF1 was wheels up en route Lansing, Michigan, at 11:59 am.
From the WH — Traveling with the President to Michigan:
Air Force One landed at Capital Region International Airport in Lansing, Michigan, at 1:20 pm.
POTUS exited the plane at 1:31 pm
Greeting the President at Capital Region International Airport was Lansing Mayor Andy Schor, per the White House.
Rep. Elissa Slotkin is also here and is speaking with the president and Schor.
We have a bad weather call so will be motorcading to the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility instead of taking Marine One.
?President Biden’s motorcade began rolling from Capital Region International Airport at 1:34 pm. Rep. Elissa Slotkin is riding with him.
The drive is about 45 mins.
Pool arrived at the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility in Howell at 2:23 pm.
Biden supporters and protestors held signs near the entrance to the facility. Some examples:
"You saved us, Mr. President."
"Abolish the filibuster"
"We love you, Joe"
"Say no to sleepy Joe"
"Stop insane government spending"
POTUS is participating in a photo line before touring the facility at 3 pm and remarks at 3:30 pm. Participants below.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Two min warning to President Biden’s tour of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility. He’ll be joined by Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, Michigan Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II, and Rep. Elissa Slotkin.
From the White House:
Joining the President on a tour of the Operating Engineers Training Facility:
Conducting the tour of the training facility:
Tour stop 1: Virtual Reality Lab
Tour stop 2: Main Shop Floor
Biden’s remarks after the tour will be streamed in the usual places.
President Biden began his remarks at 3:38 pm. He was introduced by John Osika, Training Director at the Operating Engineers Local 324.
POTUS thanked Rep. Slotkin for her advice and said he would make sure every part of his legislation is paid for.
Sitting front row are Michigan Reps. Debbie Dingell and Dan Kildee, Sen. Andy Levin
Remarks are being streamed live.
Speaking program:
?POTUS finished speaking at 3:14 pm and took several questions that were hard to hear. Will send cleaner quotes when I can.
Q: What are you willing to cut?
POTUS said he would seek package everyone can agree on but it will be less than $3.5 trillion.
On Sen. Manchin: "It sure seems like he's moving. I hope that's the case."
Pool began loading into vans at 4:16pm. Motorcade began rolling at 4:17 pm
Please note a correction in my last report: Rep. Andy Levin not Senator. Your pooler regrets the error!
Motorcade arrived at Livingston County Spencer J. Hardy Airport at 4:25 pm.
POTUS will travel to Capital Region Int’l Airport via Marine One. M1 was wheels up at about 4:26 pm.
Pool loaded into Ospreys at 4:28 pm and was up at 4:31 pm.
Marine One landed at Capital Region Int'l Airport at 4:47 pm. POTUS stepped out at 4:50 pm and took several questions from reporters. It was hard to hear - please check against video/ transcript.
Debt ceiling part of reconciliation? I don't believe Republicans will be irresponsible enough to stand in the way.
Asked about Trump signs outside his event earlier: "Makes me smile. I get more pumped up."
About his call with frontline moderates earlier today: Moderates are on the same page as I am, Biden said
Asked if he was concerned about Democrats holding Rep. Slotkin's seat, Biden said no and that he likes her a lot.
Do you still have confidence in Fed Chair Powell? Biden said yes but he was still catching up.
Pool Osprey arrived a few minutes before at 4:41 pm.
AF1 was wheels up at 5:01 pm for JBA.
Fuller quotes from the gaggle with President Biden before take off:
How are you going to trim a trillion dollars? What's going to have to go?
"My objective is to get everything that I campaigned on passed … it won't all happen at once."
Is means testing part of that? "Sure."
Hyde Amendment: "I think that's something that's going to have to be decided based on the whole package."
Meeting with moderates "went very well."
Asked if they are on the same page as Sen. Manchin, Biden said: "I think they are on the same page as I am. I'm not being facetious when I say that."
"Every major fundamental shift that has taken place in the American economy has seldom ever come from one single piece of legislation."
How to proceed if McConnell will not cooperate on debt ceiling hike?
"There's not many options if they're going to be that irresponsible … There's not much time left to do it by reconciliation."
Said, "I don't think they are going to end up being that irresponsible."
Do you still have confidence in Fed chair Powell?
"Thus far yes, I'm just catching up on some of these assertions."
How did you get Sen. Manchin to move towards a higher number? Manchin: "We've had many, many talks that I've had with Sen Manchin as well as Sen. Schumer to decide what it is they like in the Build Back Better plan and we go from there."
?Air Force One landed at JBA at 6:13 pm. We are about 15 mins ahead of schedule.
President Biden exited AF1 at 6:22 pm and waved at the press and mouthed "go home." It's drizzling here. He took no questions.
POTUS entered Marine One at 6:24 pm. It was wheels up from JBA for the White House South Lawn at 6:27 pm.
Thanks to my fellow poolers for all of your help.
Handing off to in town pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from the White House where it’s suddenly a little sunny and 74 degrees.
Marine One departed the South Lawn at 11:40 a.m., and POTUS is heading to Joint Base Andrews.
The President walked out wearing a navy blue suit and light blue tie. He waved to the press and smiled but did not answer questions. He also gave a thumbs up. Questions about the debt ceiling were shouted to no avail.
POTUS is flying to Howell, Michigan today to deliver remarks on the bipartisan infrastructure bill and his Build Back Better agenda. He is scheduled to speak at 3 p.m. at an International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 facility. This is his fourth trip to Michigan as president.
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 6:40 p.m. under a white and gray sky.
The president emerged wearing a black face mask and then approached reporters and took some questions.
The president said he'll continue to both talk to lawmakers and meet with them to try to build support. He was asked if he'd sign it with the Hyde amendment: "I'd sign it either way."
He also took a question about Taiwan.
POTUS walked away but came back to answer one more question.
"We'll be talking about that in a little bit," he said when asked about an FDA commissioner.
POTUS walked into the residence at 6:44 p.m.
Some more quotes from POTUS arrival. Please check with transcript.
"I want to get the bill passed," he said when asked if he was OK with the Hyde Amendment being in the reconciliation bill. Would he sign it anyway? "I'd sign it either way…"
"I'm not sure yet. It's not finished yet," the president said when asked what will be cut from the final bill.
Asked about Democrats using the nuclear option to raise the debt limit — using a carveout with the filibuster to raise the debt limit: "Oh I think that's a real possibility."
Any comment on provocation over Taiwan: "China has…I've spoken with Xi about Taiwan. We agree, we will abide by the Taiwan agreement. That's where we are and I made it clear that I don't think he should be doing anything other than abiding by the agreement."
A travel/photo lid was called at 7:11 p.m.
Enjoy the rest of your Tuesday.