Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House --
The president has had closed press bill signings this morning ahead of the 11 a.m. pool call time. They were scheduled for 10 a.m. in the Oval Office. The White House sends along this list of attendees:
Attending the President's signing of S. 1828, the "HAVANA Act of 2021," into law:
Senator Susan Collins (ME)
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Senator Gary Peters (MI)
Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-28)
Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger (VA-07)
Attending the President's signing of S. 1917, the "K-12 Cybersecurity Act of 2021," into law:
Senator Gary Peters (MI)
Senator Jacky Rosen (NV)
Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
--
As for the day's schedule, it is fairly busy. We expect remarks from the president at 11:30 a.m. on the jobs report and at 1:45 p.m. on the executive actions on national monuments announced Thursday night. Both are open to pre-credentialed media and should be streaming in the usual places.
We also have a briefing with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki that's currently scheduled for 2:30 p.m., with the president scheduled to leave for Delaware at 6:15 p.m.
After a significant delay, the pool is now gathering at the stakeout location.
Two minute warning for the president's remarks on the jobs report in the South Court Auditorium.
The president began speaking at 12:53 p.m.
"The monthly totals bounce around, but if you take a look at the trend, it's solid," the president said.
POTUS also offered an update on vaccinations and referenced recent agreements to temporarily keep the government funded and raise the debt limit.
The president also discussed his legislative agenda, both the infrastructure bill and the "Build Back Better plan."
He left the stage at 1:06 p.m., without taking questions.
Pool is gathering for the president's remarks on National Monuments.
We're on the north lawn, where there's both a lectern and a desk set up for the president.
POTUS made his way outside at 1:56 p.m., and Gina McCarthy began speaking less than a minute later.
The White House passes along the following:
Speaking program:
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Brenda Mallory, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
The President
Attending the President's remarks and proclamation signing:
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack
Senator Maria Cantwell (WA)
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07)
Approximately 40-50 Tribal leaders, conservation, and environmental representatives
The president began speaking at around 2:07 p.m.
After being introduced by Interior Secretary Deb Haaland, POTUS began by thanking the other speakers and some other attendees before speaking about the monument designations and other conservation-related topics.
The president moved to the desk to sign the proclamations at 2:18 p.m., at which point he was beyond earshot of your pooler because of an airplane off in the distance. There was audible laughter during the signing ceremony.
The program concluded at 2:22 p.m., with the president leading some attendees back to the White House. The president and guests were standing just outside the building when the pool passed by to return to the briefing room at 2:29 p.m.
Will update the briefing timing when we know more.
We have a two minute warning for the briefing.
The briefing concluded at 3:30 p.m.
When the press corps was brought to the South Lawn, the president, aides and several children were already standing in vicinity of the Rose Garden and there were some logistical challenges getting into position.
There is some video of this.
President Biden boarded Marine One with the children at 6:34 p.m., he appeared to be showing them the inside of the helicopter.
Biden then led the children back off the helicopter through the rear door and the children were escorted back toward the Rose Garden by people who appeared to be military aides.
Wheels up at 6:38 p.m.
The president did not stop for questions, but there were shouted questions.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Wilmington, Delaware:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the NSC
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Handing off to the travel pool with this update regarding what was happening prior to the president's departure.
From the White House:
This evening, the President hosted a military aide promotion ceremony in the Oval Office. Some of the families of the military aides were in attendance and watched the President depart on Marine One.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from Brandywine Creek State Park
Marine One landed at 7.31 pm and POTUS exited at 7.34
He walked to the ambulances and was there for a couple of minutes. Your pooler could not see him from where she was standing but a WH aide told us he spoke with paramedics.
Motorcade departed at
The motorcade started rolling at
﻿Motorcade departed at 7.38 pm
We are now rolling
﻿The motorcade dropped POTUS off at his residence at 7.49 pm and the White House declared a lid.
Have a great evening.