Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. Call time is noon but a WH official sends along the following background on today's 1:30 meeting. But first the schedule.
12:00 PM
In-town pool Call time
 
12:45 PM
Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki
Brady Press Briefing Room
 
1:30 PM
POTUS meeting with business leaders and CEOs
EEOB Library
In-House Pool
5:00 PM
POTUS remarks about a national security initiative
East Room
In-House Pool & Pre-Credentialed Media
From a WH official:
o Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said "The evidence across countries is that more vaccinations means fewer infections, hospitalizations and deaths, which in turn means a stronger economy."
o Indeed.com "For many employers who have been on the fence, the fact that the federal government is going to require a vaccine—I suspect that will push them over the edge."
o Justin Wolfers, Economist at University of Michigan: "Viewing Biden's vaccine mandate as simply economic policy, it's surely the cheapest and most powerful economic stimulus ever enacted."
· Today, the President is meeting with business leaders and CEOs that have instituted vaccine requirements or are working to implement the new rules:
· The President will discuss their leadership on putting into place strong COVID-19 requirements that help keep a safe workplace. This event will also serve as a rallying cry for more businesses across the country to step up and institute similar measures.
From a WH official:
Today, at 4:00PM ET the White House will host a virtual discussion to kick off National Hispanic Heritage Month and highlight the benefits of the President's Build Back Better Agenda for the Latino community. The roundtable will feature Isabel Guzman, Administrator of the Small Business Administration, Xavier Becerra, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Miguel Cardona, Secretary of Education and Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security, who will share their experiences as Latino leaders in the President's historic Cabinet. The conversation will be moderated by Cristobal Alex, White House Deputy Cabinet Secretary.
The virtual roundtable will be streamed live: La Casa Blanca on Twitter & La Casa Blanca on Facebook
[
]
[
]
Biden, in response to a question at the end of his prepared remarks to business leaders, expressed confidence in Milley.
Quotes from Covid portion of the remarks to come.
H
Apologies, I skipped Pool #3, but only a few of you were gracious enough to point it out.
Biden: Thank you all for being here..."
Reporter: "Sir, Did General Milley (inaudible) do the fight thing, in your opinion, sir...In your opinion did General Milley do the right thing?"
Biden, clearly heard the question, which was shouted over wranglers who were trying to hasten the pool's exit.
Biden: "I have great confidence in General Milley."
When pool entered the ornate four-storey library on the south side of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the president was facing the room, with four flags behind him, seated at the head of a horseshoe configuration, with Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on his left and Jeff Zients on his right, followed by business and academic leaders down the line.
Biden began the meeting by addressing two participants who were appearing remotely on a video screen, including Brad Smith of Microsoft.
Biden: "Brad, how are you? Good to see you."
Smith: "I apologize for not being there in person..."
Biden: "Folks, last week I made a six point plan to defeat the pandemic based on science. And the vaccination is key to getting the pandemic under control and keeping-- and keeping -- the economy strong.
"And the first part of the plan is the vaccine vaccine, this is a, this is a pandemic of the unvaccinated (unintelligible) right now. And the Labor Department is working on the emergency rule to require all employers with 100 or more workers to ensure that workers are coming back and ready to be tested. And it's going to take a little bit for them to put those requirements in place under the law. We're also going to require all health workers, healthcare workers, to get vaccinated. In addition to that, if you seek and receive care at health facilities, you are (unintelligible). And that's what we're doing, period."
"And in total, the vaccination is going to cover 100 million workers. Two thirds of all workers and it builds on previous requirements that we saw so far. And the vaccine requirements work, and more companies are instituting them even Fox News is requiring it. I am not being facetious when I say that, but it's interesting that they've stepped forward and done that as well."
"And the group I'm meeting today is leading the way. We'll hear from the CEOs and presidents of Disney, Microsoft, Walgreens, Columbia sportswear, Kaiser Permanente Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, and (unintelligible). And we're joined by Josh Bolten, who represents the Business Roundtable.... And it represents over 200 major businesses and the champions vaccine mandate to keep businesses open and workers safe."
"And also we have Bill Tate who is instituting a requirement for Louisiana State University...that went from a requirement for vaccinations. The vaccination rate at Louisiana State University went from 63 to 81% of students vaccinated in weeks."
"It's about being a virus and it's about saving lives--that's what this is all about And here's what Wall Street had to say recently. Goldman Sachs: vaccinations will have a positive impact on employment, which means less threat of COVID, which will help people return to work for unity."
"Vaccinations mean fewer infections, hospitalizations and deaths, and in turn it means a stronger economy. And I think everyone like everyone -- I think everybody should join me today and I look forward to working together to beating this pandemic to keep our economy growing and growing and growing strong. Thank you all for being here."
We have a travel photo lid until 4:30 and the 5PM event.
?If the East room were a football field, the President's lectern is on the 25 yard line.
Pool is in place five yards away.
President listened to PMs Morrison and Johnson and then gave remarks.
He did not answer a variety of shouted questions, mostly on what this new agreement meant for China.
[
]