Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Monday morning from Wilmington, Del., where the pool is awaiting President Biden's departure under partly cloudy skies and temperatures of 70 degrees F. The pool received Covid-19 tests earlier this morning ahead of the president's return to Washington.
Here's a rundown of Monday's schedule, via the White House:
President Biden's motorcade departed his Wilmington residence at 9:06 a.m. ET. The pool's bus has joined the motorcade and we are now rolling.
We will be flying back to JBA on Air Force One. The president traveled to Wilmington Saturday aboard Marine One; the press pool arrived unilaterally in Delaware Saturday aboard an Osprey.
More TK.
President Biden's motorcade arrived at the Delaware Air National Guard Base at 9:15 a.m. after an uneventful ride from his home.
The president, joined by first lady Jill Biden, exited the Beast and did not stop to speak to media under the wing.
The Bidens walked up the stairs to Air Force One, the president waved and then entered the aircraft.
At 9:18 a.m., we are wheels up shortly for the roughly 35-minute flight to Joint Base Andrews.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to the White House:
Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Jordan Montoya, Director of Advance and Trip Director for the First Lady
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 9:51 a.m. The pool did not have any visitors during the short 30-minute flight from Delaware.
President Biden and first lady Jill Biden held hands as they walked down the staircase from Air Force One at 9:58 a.m.
The president, dressed in a dark suit, blue dress shirt and red tie, was carrying an iPhone in his right hand. He did not stop to speak to reporters. Dr. Biden was wearing a blue jacket and a light blue print dress. Both were wearing black face masks.
The Bidens paused briefly to speak with Col. William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing and his wife, Diana. The four walked together and then the Bidens boarded Marine One.
Marine One lifted off at 10:05 a.m. en route to the White House.
Now handing over to the In-town pool. Thanks all.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning,
Marine One at 10:15 am.
POTUS and FLOTUS walked hand-in-hand into the White House, without stopping to answer shouted questions about the debt limit.
He is scheduled to speak on the topic at 11:15.
Pool is gathered in the State Dining Room for the president's remarks for the "need to raise the debt ceiling, after Senate Republicans voted twice last week to default." The remarks will be broadcast live on the White House's live stream website.
POTUS took several questions before exiting the room at 12:03 p.m.
The briefing is now at 2.
And the lunch lid is extended until then.
Jen Psaki took the podium at 2:38 p.m.
The briefing ended at 3:29 pm.
Travel/photo lid was called at 3:57 PM. Nighty.
From the WH:
The below memo was shared with tomorrow's out-of-town pool ahead of the President's visit to Howell, Michigan tomorrow.
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 October 4, 2021
 Background on IIJA and BBB for the President's Visit to Michigan
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a generational investment in Michigan's infrastructure and resilience.
The Build Back Better agenda will make life better for millions of working families in Michigan.