Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Friday & 1st of the month...
No changes to the schedule so far.
WH Press Office just called a lunch lid until 1p.m.
Enjoy!
From the White House Press Office:
From Press Office
 The President will travel to the Hill to speak with members of the House Democratic Caucus this afternoon.
Flagging the updated schedule w/ POTUS Hill visit and new time for briefing...
In the afternoon, the President will meet with the House Democratic Caucus about his legislative agenda. This meeting at the United States Capitol will be closed press and the in-town travel pool will accompany.
2 minute warning called at 2:37p.m. EST
The press briefing started at 2:43pm.
Pool will not be on hand for the full briefing as we’ve been called to gather for POTUS’ visit to the Hill.
More TK
Motorcade started heading out at 3:32pm
The WH Press Office provides the following
Traveling with the President to the Capitol:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Shuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & House Liaison
Anne Neuberger, Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Motorcade arrived at the southside of Capitol complex at 3:47
Protestors outside yelled "Hold the line"
Inside, POTUS walked with Pelosi. Did not take questions from reporters
From WH:
Upon arrival at the Capitol, the President will be greeted by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
The President and Speaker Pelosi will then greet in the Hall of Columns with:
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer
Majority Whip James Clyburn
Assistant Speaker Katherine Clark
Democratic Caucus Chairman Hakeem Jeffries
Biden’s remarks to House Dems ended at 4:26pm, per official here. Pool waiting on POTUS
POTUS passed by WH pool at about 4:39pm. He did not stop to take questions, but did say "We're going to get it done."
Pool heard he spoke to congressional reporters gathered downstairs. But we did not hear his remarks to that group.
Pool now rolling back to WH at 4:42pm
Motorcade arrived at WH complex at 4:54pm. POTUS walked back into Oval.
Dinner lid called until 8p.m.
Travel photo lid called at 6:57p.m.
Enjoy your Friday!