Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning everyone. It is a mostly sunny day here in Washington, with highs around 79 degrees.
The White House just sent out an update to today’s schedule – POTUS is set to get his COVID-19 booster shot and deliver remarks at 1 p.m. in the South Court.
The only other item on the schedule is Press Secretary Jen Psaki’s briefing at 1:30 p.m.
We have a lunch lid until 12:30 p.m.
Pool is gathering for POTUS’ booster shot, updates will follow.
"Did you ever think the press would come to see someone get a shot?," POTUS asked the assembled press in the South Court auditorium.
Biden reiterated the FDA and CDC instructions on who should get a Pfizer COVID-19 booster shot. "Others will come later maybe, I assume," Biden said of the possibility of booster shots for those who received the Moderna or Johnson and Johnson vaccines.
"I know it doesn't look like it, but I am over 65," Biden said jokingly as he explained why he was receiving a shot.
Biden reiterated the need for more people to get vaccinated, and noted a majority of Americans – 77 percent – have received at least one shot, while just 23 percent have not received a shot.
"That distinct minority is causing an awful lot of us, an awful lot of damage for the rest of the country," Biden said, adding later: "Please do the right thing. Please get the shot."
Biden took questions from reporters while receiving his shot. I will summarize those answers in the next pool report.
The White House press office also passed along this graphic from the CDC explaining the eligibility requirements for the COVID-19 booster shot.
While receiving and after his booster shot, Biden took a few shouted questions from the gathered press.
Biden said he did not have many side effects after either the first or second doses of the vaccine. He also said he expects First Lady Jill Biden will soon get her own booster shot.
Asked about criticism from the World Health Organization about the US authorizing boosters while poor countries are still trying to get vaccines for their populations, Biden defended his administration's work to help poor countries get the vaccine. "We are doing more than any other country," Biden said.
Asked what was at stake for his agenda with the reconciliation package, Biden replied: "Victory is at stake." But he also said it wasn't crucial for the legislation to pass this week as long as Congress made progress on a continuing resolution, lifting the debt limit and the BIF and reconciliation packages.
Two minute warning for the press briefing at 1:45 pm.
The press briefing ended at 2:34 after about 45 minutes.
I received a few inquiries about who gave POTUS his booster shot. A WH official said it was a nurse with the White House Medical Unit.
The White House has called a lid for the day at 2:48 p.m.