Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House!

It's 66 degrees outside and clear, beautiful skies. Your pooler has been tested from COVID at the new address for press at 708 Jackson Place. (Do remember the location has changed starting today).

On the public schedule for POTUS prior to his departure is a trip this morning to a local school in D.C. Your pooler will let you know if anything changes. 


Motorcade started rolling at 9:47. No sighting of POTUS. 


?Motorcade arrived at Brookland Middle School at 9:58 and is being escorted inside.

From the White House:

The President and the First Lady are at Brookland Middle School. Upon arrival, they will be greeted by:
 Miguel Cardona, Secretary of Education
 Muriel Bowser, Mayor of Washington, D.C.
 Dr. Lewis Ferebee, Chancellor of D.C. Public Schools
 Kerry Richardson, Principal of Brookland Middle School 


?Pool escorted into classroom at 10:02, where middle school students were working on projects for a science class.

The small class of 13 students were working on building models for moon expedition travels with plastic straws, tape and paper.

From the White House:

We are in the classroom of science teacher Ms. Michelle Taylor, with her 6th grade class.

POTUS, wearing a blue suit and tie, came in with FLOTUS sand Secretary Cardona at 10:04. After exchanging greetings, the three went to the front classroom and the teacher more fully explained the project. The three then interacted students and asked about their project.

POTUS was casual in his interactions asking questions like, "What's the deal here?" One time responded, "Cool, man."

Pool escorted out at 10:09 as POTUS was making general remarks before the class. No Q&A with pool, which is now holding in a room near the gymnasium. 


?POTUS and FLOTUS entered the gymnasium at 10:12 with Cardona and Mayor Bowser.

Students were playing a game with plush balls and styrofoam sticks. They appeared more interested in the game then POTUS' entrance. POTUS observed, but wasn't seen interacting with students.

Pool escorted out at 10:15. Again no Q&A with press.

Pool taken to school courtyard where a podium is present with presidential seat and guests are seated.

Twitter pics: 


 


POTUS and FLOTUS entered at 10:23. FLOTUS began with introductory remarks.

Pool won't provide quotes as remarks will be live-streamed.

From the White House:

We are in the gymnasium with gym teacher Ms. Ansia Dial. 


From the White House:

Prior to the President's remarks, he was introduced by 8th grade student Elijah Poole.


POTUS concluded his remarks at 10:45, but took a shouted question from ABC News about opponents of his latest COVID measures who say they'll challenge them in court

"Have at it," POTUS replied.

"Not a scientist in this field," POTUS added, who doesn't think the six things he implemented are common sense.

POTUS didn't respond to another shouted question on whether his measures would divide the country further, proceeding to interact with FLOTUS and Mayor Bowser as stepped away from the podium.

Pool escorted back to the motorcade and now holding. 


?Motorcade now en route back to the White House after having departed the school around 10:50.


?Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 11:04 after an uneventful trip. No sighting of POTUS.


Pool had a brief glimpse of POTUS in the distance walking through the Rose Garden to the Oval Office. Pool photographers snapped several photos. No Q&A.


The White House via email declared a lunch lid until 1:30 pm.

Also, the White House sends a note the press briefing is now set to begin at 2 pm. 


Here's the full response from POTUS earlier today in response to the question posed to him at the school by ABC News on threats to challenge his vaccine measures in court. Apologies for the delay in getting this out:

"Have at it. Look, I am so disappointed that, particularly some of the Republican governors, have been so cavalier with the health of these kids, so cavalier of the health of their communities. This is — we're playing for real here. This isn't a game.

"I don't know of any scientist out there in this field who doesn't think it makes considerable sense to do the six things I've suggested. And you know, it's a — let me conclude with this, one of the lessons I hope our students can unlearn is that politics doesn't have to be this way, politics doesn't have to be this way."

"They're growing up in an environment where they see it's like a war, like a bitter feud. If a Democrat says, 'right,' everybody says, 'left.' If a Democrat says, 'left,' they say 'right.'"

"I mean, it's now how we are as a nation, and it's not how we beat every other crisis in our history. We've got to come together. And I think the vast majority — look at the polling data — the vast majority of the American people know we have to do these things. They're hard, but necessary. We're going to get them done." 


The White House briefing will now begin at 3 pm, per a note from the White House.


The White House just sent out a note altering your pooler to a virtual press briefing with Karine Jean-Pierre and HBCU student journalists at 4 pm.

The briefing will be live-streamed at >
, per the White House.

The note comes shortly after your pooler placed a request in with the White House asking why the event isn't listed on the general public guidance. Your pooler was first alerted to the event by Steven Nelson of the New York Post, who found the listing on the White House website. 


White House briefing with Jen Psaki concluded at 3:53 pm. 


The White House has called a dinner lid until 7:15. 


POTUS just tweeted out his video on the 20th anniversary of 9/11.

 


POTUS emerged from the South Portico at 7:47, still wearing the blue suit. Carrying a binder under his arm, POTUS proceeded straight to Marine One without acknowledging reporters or responding to shouted questions muted by the sound of the engine.

Marine One lifted off at 7:49. Handing things off to the out-of-town pooler.

From the White House:

Traveling with the President on Marine One:
 Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
 Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President


Pool Reports below by 
, 




The First Lady arrived via motorcade at 7:56. She was wearing a red dress and a white face mask and she waved to the pool as she boarded the plane.

Marine One touched down and rolled to a stop at 8:00. POTUS was greeted by Col Matthew Jones Commander, 89 AW, accompanied by SSgt Daniel Thumm, Protocol Specialist, 89 AW.

POTUS carried some papers with him. He raised his mask over his mouth and nose as he boarded the plane at 8:04, waving to the pool.

We're on the smaller Air Force One for the flight to New York. We expect to be rolling momentarily. 


?As we flew over New York City, roughly parallel with the East River, we could see the twin towers of light where the World Trade Center once stood.

We touched down at LaGuardia at 8:51. POTUS and the First Lady stepped off holding hands at 9:04. They stepped into the presidential limo. We're rolling toward Manhattan at 9:06.


The motorcade cut across Randalls Island before heading south on FDR Drive. A NYPD boat kept pace on the East River.

When we drove into Manhattan, spectators were lined up behind metal barricades. We arrived at the InterContinental Barclay at 9:32. We did not see POTUS enter the hotel.


We have a travel/photo lid at 9:43. Good night.