Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, where it's an especially cool morning and the sun is just beginning to rise.

I'll be your pooler for the vice president and second gentleman's trip to Shanksville today for the Flight 93 memorial ceremony. Your pool has been tested and is gathered at JBA for an estimated 7:35 AM departure.

Guidance from the schedule below —

At 
, the Vice President and Mr. Emhoff will attend the 20th annual September 11 observance at Flight 93 National Memorial, and at 
, the Vice President will deliver remarks. This event is open press.


The VP and SGOTUS touched down at JBA at 7:27 AM and boarded the plane at 7:34. She is wearing a black suit and black heels and SGOTUS is wearing a black suit with a blue button down. The VP waved to pool before boarding and stopped and waved at the top of the stairs as well.

Pool is wheels up shortly as of 7:38.

A little more background on today's ceremony from the Department of the Interior is below. It will also be livestreamed on the park's Facebook page: 


SHANKSVILLE, Pa. – Vice President Kamala Harris, former President George W. Bush and Interior Secretary Deb Haaland will attend the 20th annual September 11 observance at Flight 93 National Memorial. With public health in mind, the observance will be limited to family members and invited guests and livestreamed on the park's Facebook page. Park grounds will reopen to the public following the conclusion of the ceremony.

The ceremony will begin on Saturday, Sept. 11 at 9:45 a.m. EDT at the Memorial Plaza. At 10:03 a.m., the moment Flight 93 crashed, the names of the passengers and crew members will be read with the ringing of the Bells of Remembrance.

The 20th observance will also include remarks from:

• Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf
• 43rd President George W. Bush
• U.S. Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
• Captain David Kurtz, Commanding Officer, USS Somerset
• Gordon Felt, brother of passenger Edward Porter Felt
• Music provided by "The President's Own" United States Marine Band


AF2 landed at the Johnstown-Cambria County Airport at 8:14, and the VP and SGOTUS deplaned at 8:29 and walked straight to the car.

Former president George W. Bush's plane is here as well, and he and former first lady Laura Bush will join the VP's motorcade.

Pool is rolling for the Flight 93 memorial as of 8:31.


The VP's office passes along excerpts of her remarks scheduled for 10:45 this morning:


What happened on Flight 93 tells us so much. About the courage of those on board,who gave 
. About the resolve ofthe first responders, who risked 
. About the 
of the American people.

On this 20th anniversary, on this solemn dayof remembrance, we must challenge ourselves to, yes, look back. For the sake of our children. For the sake of 
 children.And for that reason, we must also look forward.We must also look 
 the future.

Because in the end, 
 is what the 40 were fighting for: 
 


On the days that followed September 11th, 2001, we were all reminded that 
in America. We were reminded, too, that unity is 
 in America. It is essential to our shared prosperity, our national security, and to our standing in the world. 


The VP's motorcade arrived at the Flight 93 Memorial via dirt road at 9:05 after a relatively quiet drive through mostly green, rural areas, past a few houses and corn fields.

Pool did not see the VP and was led to the main press riser.

There are a few hundred people gathered in distanced chairs across the field here, with a stage set up at the front under a white tent, with a podium and six flags standing behind it.

The ceremony is scheduled to begin at 9:45 AMand will be streamed on the park's Facebook page.


The VP, second gentleman, former president Bush, Laura Bush and Interior Secretary Deb Haaland walked on stage at 9:43.

The ceremony began at 9:44. The VP is scheduled for 10:45.


The VP began speaking at 11:03 and finished at 11:11. She received a standing ovation before and after her remarks.

It is streamed on the Flight 93 National Memorial Facebook page, and please check quotes with the transcript.

"It is truly an honor to be with all of you at this field of honor."

"We stand today with all those who lost someone on September 11, 2001 and the aftermath of the attacks."

"Please know your nation sees you and we stand with you, and we support you."

"We are gathered today on hallowed ground, at this place that has been sanctified by sacrifice."

"We must challenge ourselves to look back, remember, for the sake of our children. For the sake of their children."

"In America, our diversity is our strength. At the same time, we saw after 9/11 how fear can be used to sow division."

"In a time of outright terror, we turned toward each other."

"If we do the hard work of working together as Americans, if we remain united in purpose, we will be prepared for whatever comes next."

"In a matter of minutes, in the most dire of circumstances, the 40 responded as one. They fought for their own lives and to save the lives of countless others at our nation's Capitol."


The VP began walking along the Wall of Names at 11:20 along with the second gentleman, Sec. Haaland and Governor Tom Wolf. The band played "Let Freedom Ring" in the background.

She paused at a few of the names to stop and read before heading downhill to the separate site where Flight 93 crashed 20 years ago, the Sacred Ground. The families of the victims followed her down for a private wreath laying ceremony.

Pool is loaded into vans awaiting the VP as of 11:31.


The VP's motorcade is rolling to the Johnstown-Cambria County Airport as of 11:46.

An addition to report #8 — when walking along the Wall of Names, the VP and SG were led by Ed Root, Nancy Root and their daughter Emily Schenkel.


The VP's motorcade arrived at the airport at 12:17. A small group of people standing outside the airport waved hello to the motorcade and waved American flags. It's a bright, clear and breezy afternoon here.

The VP got out of her limo at 12:20 and walked over with SGOTUS to take a picture with her advance team on the ground here in PA and then another with her motorcade drivers.

They boarded at 12:21 and waved at the top of the stairs.

One more note on the family escorting the VP along the Wall of Names: Ed Root's cousin Lorraine Bay was a flight attendant on Flight 93.

AF2 is wheels up shortly as of 12:30.


AF2 was wheels down at JBA at 1:11.

The VP and SG deplaned with their arms linked at 1:25, waved to pool and staff and then walked to and boarded M2. They took off for D.C. at 1:30.

That's it from me for today, please reach out with any other questions!