Pool Reports by 
, 




Hey y’all —

I’m your in-town pooler today and just wanted to check in.



Below is information on the president’s public sked:

 THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT meet with Latino community leaders

 THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his Administration’s progress toward fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. 


Pool is tested and waiting at the Palm Room doors for presidents event with Latino leaders.


Quotes and paraphrase from event. President spoke for about 7 minutes. We were ushered out at 1:50ish.

Off the top, the president's remarks were focused on getting vaccinated, said the Latino community has been so important in getting folks vaccinated

"Tired of trickledown it doesn't work very well" and talks about making sure the economy is built from the bottom up.

"Creating millions of good paying jobs in every community."

Shooting in El Paso — "these anniversaries should be celebrated in the sense too recognizing they shouldn't happen again. They are terrible for the victims and the survivors. I know ho hard these anniversaries are."

Staying United against "domestic terrorism rooted in white supremacy."

Continue to call on Congress to work on gun safety laws including "ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines."

When asked if he thought Cuomo should resign: "I'm going to be speaking on COVID at 4 o'clock and will take questions on COVID and other issues after that."

Sending list of attendees soon. As always, please check against transcript. 


Below is the list of attendees from the White House:

Janet Murguía, President and CEO, UnidosUS 
 Frankie Miranda, President and CEO, Hispanic Federation (HF) 
 Domingo Garcia, National President, League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) 
 Arturo Vargas, CEO, National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) Educational Fund 
 Kenneth Romero, Executive Director, National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators (NHCSL) 
 Héctor Sánchez Barba, Executive Director and CEO, Mi Familia Vota 
 Nathalie Rayes, President and CEO, Latino Victory 
 María Teresa Kumar, Founding President and CEO, Voto Latino 
 Lorella Praeli, Co-President, Community Change Action 
 Jess Morales Rocketto, Civic Engagement Director, National Domestic Workers Alliance 
 Ramiro Cavazos, President and CEO, U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce 
 Mark Magaña, Founding President and CEO, GreenLatinos

Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement 
 Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor 
 Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the First Lady 
 Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs 
 Emmy Ruiz, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy and Outreach 
 Rohini Kosoglu, Deputy Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President 
 Cristóbal Alex, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Cabinet Secretary 
 Adrian Saenz, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement 
 Ernesto Apreza, Senior Advisor for Public Engagement 


Briefing moved to 2:15.


Fixing quote from Biden: "These anniversaries should be celebrated in the sense that recognizing so things don't happen again. They are terrible for the victims and the survivors. I know ho hard these anniversaries are." 


Will stream on WH channels 


The President and Vice President’s meeting with the Latino leaders has just ended per the White House.

FPPO: They will be doing a gaggle at the stakeout location.


Pool has gathered in the East Room for the President’s remarks.

The remarks will be live-streamed on the White House channels. The president IS expected to address Gov Cuomo per briefing and take questions (per him). 


Until Biden remarks. 


Photo and travel lid called at 5:15.

Get hydrated and get some dinner, 