This week, governors and mayors across the country have expressed their ardent support for the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, the largest long-term investment in our infrastructure and competitiveness in nearly a century.

The deluge of tweets from state and local leaders supporting the bill amplified the importance of the bill's passage by Congress to improve the safety and efficiency of roads, bridges, and transit nationwide, extend access and affordability of broadband, ensure clean water, make our infrastructure and economy more resilient, and tackle the climate crisis.

Several of the tweets also commended the bipartisan efforts of the bill's negotiations, urging Congress to move the plan forward.

While all called for swift passage of the bill, some went a step further, advocating for President Biden's larger plan ??" the Build Back Better Agenda, which will make historic investments in universal pre-k, community college, and child care, among others.



 "I'm urging the U.S. Senate to quickly pass the bipartisan infrastructure plan to make our roads safer & better. This bipartisan bill will help fix our roads & bridges, add more rail service, create jobs, invest in transit & help us build back better
 


 "Today, I issued the following statement urging members of Congress to immediately pass the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which will provide much needed benefits to Louisiana."
 


The @portofbalt is one of the busiest ports in America and a shining example of world-class infrastructure at work. The Port also stands to be a great beneficiary of a new federal infrastructure package, and I urge Congress to swiftly pass this bipartisan agreement."
 


 "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act represents a once-in-a-generation investment in America's infrastructure, competitiveness, and future. I urge Congress to quickly pass this transformative plan and deliver for our nation."
 


I support the bipartisan infrastructure package advanced by the Senate as it will help North Carolina emerge from this pandemic stronger than ever. 1/2

"We can improve roads, bridges, public transit, high speed internet, clean water and make our communities more resilient to natural disasters. I urge the US Senate to act quickly. RC"
 


 "@NC_Governor Charlotte appreciates the leadership of @SenatorBurr and @SenThomTillis in moving this critically needed bipartisan infrastructure plan forward. Transit, aviation, highways, rail, sustainability and broadband affordability are critical needs in our region." 


 "President Biden's infrastructure proposal and the budget reconciliation package not only rebuild our nation's roads and ports, but creates historic investments in universal pre-k, community colleges, and healthcare. This is the Build Back Better agenda our country needs."
 


: THREAD: "Is it finally infrastructure week?!? The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act: 
 Makes the largest federal investment in public transit ever 
 Makes the largest federal investment in passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak" 


 "Absolutely @NC_Governor Local Elected officials on the ground are definitely urging Congress to Press forward on this much needed Bipartisan Infrastructure deal!!! Our crumbling water and sewer infrastructure need this now!!! @WhiteHouse @POTUS @USHouseFloor @SenateFloor"
 


 "Passing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment & Jobs Act must be a #1 priority for the U.S. It will create jobs, help us rebuild crumbling roads and bridges, invest in transit (YES!!), ensure broadband access and help us tackle climate change. Let's do this ... together."
 


 "A bipartisan group of senators have reached agreement on $550 billion Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal that will grow the economy & create good jobs for decades. @USMayors President @NanWhaley: "bipartisanship is still possible - by leaving politics aside." 


 "We need our Federal Partners to Pass the Bipartisan Senate Infrastructure bill before recess.  The legislation includes new federal investment in America's roads and bridges, water infrastructure, resilience, internet, and more. No recess before you pass this legislation."
 


 "America's bipartisan @usmayors continue to stand united in support of a national investment in core infrastructure. This has been bipartisan every step of the way & in that vein I saw these great remarks from @robportman this week that I commend to you." 


 "Seattle and the country cannot afford to wait on investing in infrastructure to make our economy more competitive, sustainable, and just. The #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal is an essential down payment on Seattle's future for light rail, electric buses, and transit for all."
 


The Bipartisan Infrastructure and Investment Jobs Act will invest in our country and our people by creating jobs, tackling the climate crisis and growing the economy sustainably and equitably for decades to come. @POTUS #BuildBackBetter"
 


"Passing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal is a step towards ensuring generations to have improved equality of life.

I hope Congress will continue to move through the process of passing the BID.

2021 has been an unusually wet year for New Orleans.

Climate Change is effecting us everyday and the BID will provide resources to combat it!"
 


If passed, the @POTUS Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will create equity by addressing economic disparities in our economy and the consequences of decades of disinvestment in America's infrastructure that have fallen most heavily on communities of color.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will:
 - Deliver high-speed internet to every U.S. household
 - Reconnect communities divided by inequitable transportation infrastructure
 - Deliver clean drinking water to every household

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will:
 - Electrify school buses - improving the air quality for kids
 - Invest in clean energy to mitigate the disparate impacts of pollution on communities of color
 - Invest in more public transit options"
 


 "Moving forward the #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal will bring historic infrastructure investment to cities like Boise. These investments can modernize our public transit system, invest in clean drinking water for future generations and expand broadband access for all Boiseans." 


 "The #BipartisanInfrastructureDeal is huge for Pittsburgh. Communities like ours will be able to invest in our people and neighborhoods by creating good paying union jobs, tackling the climate crisis, and growing the economy sustainably and equitably." 


 "The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, along with the budget resolution, makes historic investments in our country and our people by creating good jobs, and sustaining equitable economic growth for decades to come. #LittleRock families need Congress to act." 


Who else would love to see a high-speed rail system come through Birmingham? 


One more reason Congress needs to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal TODAY! 