Major companies, non-profits, and government agencies from the Social Security Administration to the Department of Veterans Affairs, to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have answered the Biden-Harris Administration's Call to Action to spread the word and alert Americans that emergency rental assistance is available. The combined commitments announced today – part of an ongoing all-out push to make sure tenants and landlords take advantage of federal rental assistance to help cover rent, utilities, and other housing costs and keep people in their homes – could reach tens of millions of Americans.
The continued call to action coincides with the launch of a new rental assistance finder produced by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Americans who may be behind on rent can go to 
 and input information on their location to find local rental assistance programs in their area and apply for assistance.
Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, billions of dollars in federal rental assistance is available to renters who are behind on housing costs, as well as landlords who have struggled during the pandemic. The Administration is building on a whole-of-government effort and engaging a wide variety of stakeholders to spread awareness of the CFPB's new tool, as well as the resources available to assist tenants and landlords.
Emergency rental assistance is available to tenants in all 50 states, Washington, D.C., territories, and in Tribal areas, and will continue to be available after the expiration of the CDC eviction moratorium on August 1, 2021. The continued Call to Action builds on the 
 by the Administration to engage renters and landlords, including hosting two virtual convenings with thousands of participants to share best practices on eviction prevention and build local plans of action, streamline guidance for the rental assistance program to make it easier and more efficient, and engage agencies across the federal government to help get the word out to households in need.
For more general information about the Emergency Rental Assistance program, 
.
Agencies across the federal government, non-profit groups, faith-based organizations, and private sector companies are responding to the Biden-Harris Administration's call to action to raise awareness. We expect that these efforts will reach tens of millions of Americans.
This Call to Action remains open to everyone – other companies, non-profits, faith-based organizations, and more can answer the Call to Action by leveraging their own communications channels to spread the word.