Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from Wilmington.
Pool joined POTUS motorcade at about 12:55pm after being swept.
POTUS motorcade peeled off at Fieldstone golf course at 1:04 pm.
It is 85 degrees and sunny here.
Pool was COVID tested this a.m.
The President is golfing with:
Pool is holding at a nearby market.
POTUS left Fieldstone Golf Club at 3:40pm
Motorcade is rolling
POTUS motorcade peeled off from pool at 3:49pm near the president's private residence.
Holding
Pool rejoined POTUS motorcade at 4:14pm
Destination TBD
POTUS entered church at 4:17 pm. He was not wearing a jacket.
Two protestors stood outside the entrance holding pro-life signs. Co pooler Jennifer Epstein says both have protested here multiple times.
One sign read: "JOE BIDEN EQUALS ABORTION EUTHANASIA AND INFANTICIDE."
Your pooler spoke briefly with protestors Moira Sheridan and David Williams outside the church gates. Sheridan said they had been here "dozens of times" but encountered POTUS on only six or so occasions.
At 4:49 pm your pooler saw POTUS exit the church from a distance.
Motorcade began rolling at 4:51 pm
Motorcade stopped outside President Biden's private residence at 4:56 pm.
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter. Pool bus is rolling at 5:01 pm
?POTUS motorcade is rolling to TBD location at 6 pm after departing residence. Pool was holding nearby and rejoined as motorcade passed by.
?Motorcade crossed into Pennsylvania at about 6:10 pm. Destination still TBD
At 6:19 pm POTUS motorcade turned into Longwood Gardens, driving through the park before heading in the direction of Kennett Square Golf & Country Club after crossing a small bridge.
Per the White House, the President is attending a family dinner at his sister Valerie's house.
Motorcade separated from the press pool at about 6:25 pm. Pool bus is now holding on the side of the road, across from the bridge.
At 8:48 pm POTUS motorcade re-emerged from the direction of Kennett Square Golf & Country Club and drove back towards Wilmington.
Press bus separated from motorcade near Biden's residence at 9:15 pm.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 9:15pm.