Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning.
White House has called a lunch lid until 2 pm.
As a reminder, here's the updated guidance from this morning:
?Travel pool has been instructed to gather.
POTUS is now scheduled to depart Wilmington 
.
POTUS motorcade rolling at 2:39 pm from nearby residence.
A reminder that pool will not be returning with POTUS. Marine One will fly to Ellipse.
?Marine One will fly to the South Lawn, not Ellipse.
POTUS arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 2:47 pm and board Marine One at 2:49 pm.
Pool Osprey is wheels up shortly. Handing over to in town pool.
Last two reports should be labeled #4 (on the move) and #5 (correction for South Lawn arrival) - apologies
Returning to the White House with the President on Marine One:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon,
Pool is assembling for President Biden's arrival on the South Lawn after some shifting of the schedule on this hot and muggy Sunday with a forecast of possible pop-up storms.
Outside the White House this afternoon was what felt like downright "normal" summer activity, including plenty of tourists and demonstrators and few barricades. There has been a large contingent of "Free Cuba" supporters in Lafayette Square for at least several hours, since your pooler came in to get her pre-requisite COVID test. Agents at the door said they've been here all day (and for several days, for that matter).
Will advise when the President is wheels down and, as always, of any news.
M1 was wheels down on the South Lawn at 3:46 pm.
POTUS exited at 3:48 pm wearing his trademark shades and no tie.
He answered one question about whether a pathway to citizenship needs to be in the reconciliation bill:
"There needs a pathway for citizenship, whether it can be in *immigration remains to be seen."
*The President seemingly misspoke where he meant reconciliation.
Travel photo lid called at 3:50.