Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from Wilmington.

Gather time for the travel pool has been pushed to noon.

As a reminder here is the guidance the WH provided yesterday.

 
 In the morning, the President will receive the President's Daily Brief. This meeting will be closed press.

In the evening, the President will travel to Camp David from Wilmington, Delaware, where he will remain over the weekend. The departure from Delaware Air National Guard will be covered by the travel pool.



Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
 Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
 TV Corr & Crew: CBS
 Print: AFP



 




 
 
 


?Pool bus joined motorcade at 1.19 pm

Now en route to DANG. 


Motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 1:29 pm

POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One at 1:31 pm.

FLOTUS was using a crutch and had what appeared to be a boot on the left foot.

The President did not stop to talk to reporters.

Marine One lifted off at 1:36 pm for Camp David where the President is expected to remain for the weekend.

This was my first time on pool duty.

Many thanks to co pooler Zolan Kanno-Youngs from NYT for his help.


POTUS was wearing a cap, a light blue button down shirt and was carrying a piece of luggage.

FLOTUS was wearing a white dress, a sneaker on her right foot and a medical boot on her left.

WH also sending along this:

Traveling with the President to and the First Lady to Camp David:

Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the National Security Council

Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Advisor to the First Lady 


Per the WH just now

Earlier today, the President was briefed by members of his national security team on the ongoing efforts to safely drawdown the civilian footprint in Afghanistan. He will get further briefings later today. Additionally, the President received an update from the COVID-19 team on today's increase in vaccinations, and the roll out of third-shot boosters for the immunocompromised. Finally, he consulted with his legislative affairs team on next steps on his economic agenda in the House of Representatives.


WH shares that Marine One was wheels down at 2:27 PM at Camp David and calls a travel/photo lid. 