Pool Reports by 
, 




Good afternoon all.

Pool has been covid tested and masked.

Reporters have gathered in the East Room of the WH for POTUS remarks on prescription drugs. The WH says POTUS remarks are unlikely to start for another 30 minutes. They were initially sked for about 11:15 am.

A teleprompter has been set up for Biden's remarks. There is also a lectern for POTUS. Next to it is a lower side table that holds a glass of water capped with a white covering.

Later today POTUS will depart for Wilmington from Ft. McNair. He's leaving from there rather than the South Lawn due to construction on the South Lawn, per the WH.


Hello all – Two minute warning for POTUS remarks on prescription drugs, which will be given from the East Room of the WH. The event was initially scheduled for 11:15 a.m., as some of you have observed.

FWIW, at 12:27 p.m. a WH staffer removed the white lid from the glass of water set up next to the presidential lectern. Your pooler has been closely watching to see how much of the water has evaporated. 


POTUS remarks ended around 1:47 pm

Biden did not respond to questions on Afghanistan as he walked away from the lectern. 


Hello all –

Lots of delays today.

At about 2:30 p.m. pool gathered by the sticks at the WH. Around 2:37 p.m. pool loaded into black vans at the WH.

We started moving at 3:01 p.m. We are en route to Ft. McNair where POTUS will helo to DANG. Construction on the South Lawn is the reason for the unusual departure location, per the White House. 


POTUS motorcade arrived at Ft. McNair at 3:10 a.m. after a swift drive through DC. We passed curious bystanders and also a pool full of swimmers. At Ft. McNair we passed by what appeared to be a birthday party picnic.

Biden walked across a field to Marine One accompanied by a military official. The press was stationed quite far from the helo and POTUS did not look in our direction.

Two helos, including Marine One, left from on a field by the National War College.

POTUS loaded on the M1 helo around 3:12 p.m.

POTUS departed at 3:17 p.m.

Passing off to out of town pool

From the White House press shop:

Traveling with the President to Wilmington, Delaware:
 Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the National Security Council
 Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
 Pili Tobar, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Good afternoon from your travel pooler.

Marine One landed at 4:02 pm at Delaware Air National Guard Base.

POTUS stepped off at 4:06 holding a couple of binders.

He did not take questions. 


POTUS arrived at his residence at 4:21 pm after an uneventful ride?.

The WH called a lid at 4:22 pm.

Have a great rest of your day. 