President Biden believes that health care is a right, not a privilege. No American should have to face difficult choices between paying for their prescription medications or other essential needs. And yet, too many Americans face this exact challenge. On average, Americans pay two to three times as much as people in other countries for prescription drugs, and one in four Americans who take prescription drugs struggle to afford their medications. Pharmaceutical companies do ground-breaking, life-saving work, but there is a difference between developing clinical breakthroughs and driving up prices for the drugs Americans rely on. Change is sorely needed.

Today, President Biden is laying out his vision for reducing the high cost of prescription drugs. As part of his Build Back Better agenda, he's calling on Congress to address this crisis and allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices, significantly reducing costs for millions of Americans.

Specifically, the President's plan includes:

 These reforms would 
 of Americans.  Insulin prices could 
 on average.   The price for some arthritis medicines might fall by 
.  And for some of the most expensive drugs, prices would fall by tens of thousands of dollars per year.  These price savings would put money back in seniors' pockets: a person taking an expensive cancer drug could see their out of pocket costs fall by at least $9,000 a year, and even seniors who don't take expensive drugs could see their premiums cut.  
. And it's not just Medicare beneficiaries that would benefit.  If Medicare makes the prices it negotiates available to commercial payers, too, costs for employer health insurance would fall – reducing premiums by tens of billions of dollars or more.

Public opinion 
 show that the majority of Americans—Republicans and Democrats—support this change. The Biden-Harris Administration continues to do everything we can to make high quality health care more affordable and accessible. By enabling Medicare to negotiate drug prices, Congress can do its part to bring down costs and secure the health and financial security of our nation's seniors.