Pool Reports by 
, 




Good afternoon,

It is a sunny and humid 93 degree F day at the White House, with very little breeze (your pooler's weather app tells us it actually feels like 103).

Pool is in the briefing room awaiting Vice President Kamala Harris' roundtable with CEOs to discuss the care economy, per guidance. It's scheduled for 2:15 PM ET. Pool has been told to gather at 1:55 PM.

Passing along some background on the event, per VP's press staff:







Feel free to reach out with questions.


The pool is holding in an office adjacent to the VP's Ceremonial Office to await her round table with CEOs.

The event is scheduled for 2:15 and running a touch late

On the walls of the holding room are a framed photo of VP Harris and her husband, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, a photo of Harris holding a round table discussion, and another of Harris seated alongside President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden at inauguration.


VP event on care economy with CEOs started at 235pm. Harris made remarks at the top about this issues importance to the economy, which I will send shorty but a bit of news first.

Kellianne Jones of Fox News shouted a question at the end of Harris' remarks If "Afghanistan is lost to the Taliban?"

Harris didn't answer, but said she would be leaving the meeting to go to a briefing.

Pool was then ushered out of the room as the round table for underway.

I will send quotes from Harris in a second and double check all audio.


Hello,

Harris gave a brief set of remarks at the top of her meeting with CEOs, which took place in her Ceremonial Office. Refer to pool report #1 for a list of attendees. Seated at the table to the left of Harris was White House advisor Neera Tanden.

Here are key quotes from Harris' opening remarks, and please check against the official transcript:

"I want to thank you all for joining us for this very important conversation, which is about childcare," Harris said.

"And what it means in terms of the benefit to our economy, the benefit to our families, the benefit to the strength of our nation and our ability to role model to the world what it means to be an economy that is strong...."

She mentioned the Senate Democrats' budget resolution that will benefit Biden's Build Back Better plan. Harris also said the pandemic had revealed "fissures and failures" in America's care system.

"Affordable childcare we know relates to both a business's ability to recruit talent and retain talent," she said.

"We know that it directly impacts worker productivity, and the bottom lines of your businesses. We know that when we prioritize" it, it "contributes to our ability to be competitive globally, in terms of what we know is still an ongoing challenge for our nation which is to keep up with what is happening around the world."

Harris said that this work followed on the heels of the work they did on the American Rescue Plan and the child tax credit. She highlighted that the Biden administration's work "has been designed to help not only families and children, but those who are responsible for the caregiving of seniors."

She thanked the CEOs assembled at the table for their leadership and commitment to the issue.

Harris was then asked a question about whether Afghanistan was lost to the Taliban (see report #3) as the pool was being escorted from the room.

Pool was then escorted out of the room and held in an adjacent office until it was time to disband.

Please email with any questions.