WASHINGTON -- Hurricane Ida is set to hit the U.S. northern Gulf Coast as a dangerous major hurricane today. FEMA is tracking the danger of life-threatening storm surge along the coasts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida in the warning area. Storm surge may reach 12-16 feet or greater where the hurricane makes landfall.

"This is a major hurricane. If you did not evacuate, find a safe location to ride out the storm," said FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell.  "Avoid enclosed areas, such as an attic, where you may become trapped by storm surge or flooding. Storm surge can cause water levels to rise quickly and flood large areas in just minutes, and you could be left with no time to take action. Please be safe and listen to local emergency management officials."

Ida will bring potentially catastrophic wind damage where the core makes landfall and will bring hurricane force winds in portions along the Louisiana coast, including the New Orleans metropolitan area. Overtopping of local levees outside of the Hurricane and Storm Damage Risk Reduction System is possible where local inundation values may be higher.

The storm will also produce heavy rainfall today through Monday across the central Gulf Coast from southeastern Louisiana and coastal Mississippi to far southwestern Alabama, which will result in considerable to life-threatening flash and urban flooding.

A tornado watch has been issued for parts of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana and Mississippi until 7 p.m. CT tonight.

President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. approved 
 request for an emergency declaration on Aug. 27, and 
 request on Aug. 28. The declarations authorize FEMA to coordinate disaster relief efforts in support of the states by identifying, mobilizing and providing equipment and resources necessary to alleviate hardship and suffering of the local population. Additionally, the declarations authorize FEMA to provide appropriate assistance for required emergency measures to save lives and to protect property, public health and safety in all 64 Louisiana parishes and 24 Mississippi counties and the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians.

Keep in mind that areas far from the storm's center can experience effects such as severe flooding, intense rainfall, and heavy winds.

Anyone in the forecast path should rush to complete final preparations, monitor your local news for updates and directions provided by local officials and please check on your neighbors, if it is safe to do so.
 


 


 


 


 


If you are under a tornado warning, follow these tips to stay safe:
