Pool Reports by 
, 




Good Afternoon,

The White House Press Office passes along the following....

From Press Secretary Jen Psaki:

In his remarks this afternoon, the President will express his thanks to the commanders and service members who executed a dangerous mission in Kabul and airlifted more than 124,000 people to safety; he will also offer thanks to the veterans and volunteers who supported this effort. He will lay out his decision to end the war in Afghanistan after 20 years, including the tough decisions he made over the last seven months since he took office to bring the war to a close. He will make clear that as President, he will approach our foreign policy through the prism of what is in our national interests, including how best to continue to keep the American people safe.

Also reupping the updated Daily Guidance







 
 






 


Pool and pre-credentialed media have been called to gather for POTUS' remarks on Afghanistan. We were given a gather time of 2:40pm.

The remarks will be live-streamed but pool will provide color from the State Dining Room.


Assembled reporters were told to head back inside and we'll receive another announcement to gather at the Palm Room Doors.


Still no word on new gather time for POTUS speech, but the Press Office passes along the following...

***

Key stats from today's COVID-19 briefing:

Last week, 6 million Americans got a shot – the biggest weekly total since July 5. We are now averaging almost 900,000 shots in arms each day – up 80% from the 500,000 shots in arms we were averaging in mid-July.

Importantly, the pace of new vaccinations continues to accelerate. In August, over 14 million people got their first shot. That's almost 4 million more first shots in August compared to July. 


?Reporters just told to regather again at 3:14pm


2 min warning called at 3:24pm 


POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 3:28p.m. 


POTUS finished his remarks at 3:54p.m. and walked away without taking questions shouted by reporters. 


Per wrangler the daily press briefing will start after reporters arrive at briefing room. We're all being ushered back there from State Dining Room


2 minute warning called at 4:12p.m. 


Press Sec Jen Psaki took the podium at 4:15p.m. 


Briefing wrapped up shortly after 5p.m. 


Travel/Photo Lid called at 5:07p.m.

Good Evening to all.... 