WASHINGTON-- As Hurricane Ida intensifies into a major storm in the Gulf of Mexico, FEMA, non-government organizations and federal agency partners continue to work alongside state, tribal and local officials to prepare and respond to the storm. The National Guard, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers continue to provide support as needed.

"FEMA headquarters and regional operation centers are activated around the clock," said FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell. "We've pre-positioned equipment and supplies throughout the states to ensure resources are in place. Our federal partners join us on the ground supporting the response to this dangerous hurricane," she said. "This is the heartbeat of the federal family that has come together to support the people of Louisiana. I urge residents in the storm's path to prepare now for significant impacts."

Gulf Coast residents should listen to local officials, and if told to evacuate, do so immediately. For anyone going to a community or group shelter, remember to follow the latest recommendations for COVID-19 from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. FEMA is fully operational in the COVID-19 environment, and the appropriate safety measures remain a priority to protect responders and residents from the virus.

President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. approved emergency disaster declarations for Louisiana and Mississippi ahead of the storm's landfall. These declarations help FEMA to respond rapidly and efficiently when states and individuals need aid after a disaster.

More than 2,000 FEMA employees are deployed to Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, including seven FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams in Louisiana and Mississippi.

In addition, 13 Urban Search and Rescue teams are deployed. Through mutual-aid agreements, FEMA activated 100 ambulances and emergency medical service providers for post-storm evacuation support, as needed. Mobile Emergency Response Support is deployed for temporary mobile communications in Louisiana and Mississippi.



The American Red Cross is working with local officials from Texas to Florida to assess and open shelters as needed. In Louisiana, the Red Cross, state officials and other community groups are planning to open dozens of shelters for at least 16,000 people. Additional cots, blankets, comfort kits and ready-to-eat meals are pre-positioned in Louisiana and Mississippi.

The Red Cross is also supporting hospitals and has pre-positioned blood products ahead of the storm to help ensure patients have continued access to lifesaving blood transfusions. The organization has more than 500 volunteers on the ground, with hundreds of others on standby.

The Louisiana. National Guard is activated and has staged high-water vehicles, boats, engineer work teams and other resources in 13 parishes prior to the storm's landfall.

 As federal agencies continue to mobilize staff and supplies, Gulf Coast residents need to complete storm preparations today. Residents should listen to and follow instructions from local officials. Preparedness information can be found on Ready.gov and Listo.gov