Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from your in-town pooler.

No changes to the president's schedule per the White House press office a few minutes ago. Pool call time is 10 a.m. 


The president will return to the White House today. He will deliver marks on Afghanistan in the East room at 3:45 p.m.

It is raining. 


Lunch lid until 12 p.m., per loudspeakers in the White House press area. 


The pool is driving to Fort McNair. 


Pool has arrived at Fort McNair.

Marine One was wheels up at 12:36 p.m. per White House press office. Pool is expecting POTUS to arrive at about 1:20 p.m. 


Updated arrival time for President Biden at Fort McNair is 1:15 p.m. 


From a White House official: the vice president will attend the president's speech this afternoon. 


from the White House:

This morning, the President was briefed by his national security team, including the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman Milley, on the security situation at Hamid Karzai International Airport, and ongoing efforts to safely evacuate American citizens, US Embassy personnel and local staff, SIV applicants and their families, and other vulnerable Afghans. 


Marine One landed at Fort McNair at 1:12 p.m.

The president exited at 1:14 p.m. and waved to the pool. He walked to his car. He took no questions.

Returning with the president on Marine One, per the White House press office:
 AnnieTomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
 Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

Pool is in vans and waiting to depart for White House. 


Pool has arrived at White House. President exited his car and walked into the building at 1:26 p.m. 


Lunch lid until 3:30 p.m., per the White House press office. 


The pool and other press are seated for the president's remarks in the East Room on Afghanistan. No indication on specific start time yet. 


Two-minute warning.

Pooler spotted White House press secretary Jen Psaki walking in the halls of the White House ahead of speech. 


The president arrived in the East Room at 4 p.m. He is now speaking.

The vice president is not here. 


The vice president is watching President Biden speak from the Green Room, per a White House official.


President Biden left the East Room at 4:20 p.m. He took no questions from press.

Pool gathering to depart to Fort McNair for president's departure to Camp David. 


The pool is in the vans and on the way to Fort McNair. 


President walked out of car at Fort McNair at 4:52. He saluted, walked to Marine One, and boarded the helicopter.

Staff carrying luggage followed and boarded.

Wheels up at 4:57.

It is drizzling so pool is standing under trees. 


Returning with the president on Marine One per the White House Press office: 
 Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President 
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations 
 Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary 


Pool arrived back at the White House about 10 minutes ago from Fort McNair. No word on a lid yet or whether POTUS has landed at Camp David. 


President was wheels down at Camp David at 5:29 p.m., per White House press office.

Travel/photo lid called at the White House at 5:48 p.m. 