Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning everyone,

Call time isn't until noon on this humid day in Washington, but I'm passing along a note from the WH in the meantime. Feel free to send me a message if I can be of help!

"From a White House official:

Today, the President will meet with his national security team to manage efforts in Afghanistan, receive an update on the COVID-19 response, and engage with members of Congress regarding his Build Back Better agenda ahead of the House returning to Washington." 


Also from the WH:

"There will be a Defense Department Press Briefing with Pentagon Press Secretary John F. Kirby and Army Maj. Gen. William D. "Hank" Taylor, Joint Staff deputy director for regional operations, at 10:00 AM and a State Department Press Briefing with Spokesperson Ned Price at 2:00 PM." 


Another note from the White House:

"At the Pentagon press briefing today, Major General Hank Taylor provided the following updates:



"From a White House Official:

At the direction of President Biden, the United States Government continues to rapidly mobilize to assist the Government of Haiti and the Haitian people after Saturday's devastating earthquake.

During this morning's Pentagon briefing, Maj. General Taylor briefed that:



Your covid-tested pooler is holding at the White House, with no public events currently on the president's schedule. Will let you know if anything changes, or if any more updates flow into the pool chain. 


At 12:34, the White House called a lunch lid until 4 p.m. 


"From a White House official:

This morning, the President and Vice President met with their national security team to discuss security, diplomatic, and intelligence updates in Afghanistan. They discussed the status of operations at Hamid Karzai International Airport (HKIA), which continues to be secure and operational as a result of DOD's efforts; our efforts to evacuate U.S. citizens, Embassy personnel, SIV applicants and their families, and vulnerable Afghans as quickly as possible; and that every day we operate troops on the ground are at risk. The national security team updated the President and Vice President that DOD has evacuated 7,000 people since August 14 and 12,000 people since the end of July. The President, Vice President, and their team also discussed their focus on monitoring for any potential terrorist threats in Afghanistan, including from ISIS-K. The President and Vice President met with Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley, Director Haines, Director Burns, National Security Advisor Sullivan, Ambassador Wilson, General McKenzie, Admiral Vasely, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer, Homeland Security Advisor Sherwood-Randall, and other senior officials." 


The White House called a travel/photo lid at 3:36 p.m. Take care everyone! 