

Today, the Department of Energy (DOE) released a new issue brief that details a bright future for solar power, good jobs, and affordable energy in the United States. President Biden's proposed investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda will invest in the infrastructure, manufacturing, innovation, and incentives for solar energy that we need to grow good-paying, union jobs at home, make solar energy affordable for all American families, and accelerate the deployment of net-zero energy across the country. These critical investments will unlock the full potential of solar and help fight the climate crisis.

To spotlight how President Biden's plans will grow solar jobs and lower costs for working families, Biden-Harris Administration officials are traveling across the country to meet with industry, academia, homeowners, and stakeholders to discuss the benefits of solar. Today, National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy will meet with local climate leaders and experts at a California university to see how the school is leveraging clean energy, while Labor Secretary Marty Walsh will tour First Solar's solar panel manufacturing facility in Lake Township, Ohio, and meeting with workers. First Solar already supports 1,600 jobs in Ohio, and this new factory expansion will create about 500 new jobs. Yesterday, Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm was in Alaska touring renewable energy labs and discussing game-changing clean energy technologies with local businesses.

The DOE issue brief 
details the immense growth opportunities that exist in the solar energy industry for workers and families, and how investments like those proposed by President Biden can supercharge the benefits of these opportunities. In particular, the issue brief explains:

Realizing this potential for solar generation requires historic investments to accelerate deployment of residential, commercial, and utility-scale solar systems, including in disadvantaged and low-income communities. The proposed clean energy investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better Agenda will serve as this catalyst for jobs and economic opportunity. This includes the extension of $300 billion in tax cuts for clean electricity, including solar, making it cheaper to build, funding for new transmission and energy storage infrastructure to help deliver clean, reliable power to homes and businesses. President Biden also proposed a new Clean Energy Accelerator to leverage private capital for community solar projects, particularly in low-income and disadvantaged communities. These investments, along with the proposed Energy Efficiency and Clean Electricity Standard, can help achieve the President's goal of 100 percent carbon pollution-fee power by 2035.
DOE is also celebrating the 
 to promote a new, free, web-based tool – the Solar Automated Permit Processing (SolarAPP+) – that helps local governments speed up the review and approval of permits for residential solar and solar plus storage systems. Faster permitting times will attract businesses to work in jurisdictions that use it. After implementing a similar tool to fast-track permits in San Jose, CA, residential installations increased by 600 percent.

Build Back Better investments proposed by President Biden can help DOE achieve these solar cost reductions. Investments in clean energy R&D, supply chains of critical materials, and tax cuts for new and retooled factories for advanced energy manufacturing will help lower costs across the solar lifecycle. Extending the tax cuts for both utility and residential renewable energy project can help lower the upfront costs of new solar and accelerate deployment so that everyone can benefit from the economies of scale. Lower solar costs overall can put downward pressure on utility energy costs for ratepayers, and make solar more affordable for more families while reducing the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of their energy use. 
A pathway to a largely decarbonized electricity sector by 2035 can add millions of new jobs across clean energy technologies, including potentially 500,000–1,500,000 people working in solar by 2035. To match this demand with supply, investments are needed to expand the talent pipeline by increasing access to training opportunities across the entirety of workforce development stakeholders, such as labor unions, community colleges, non-profits and other training providers. This could include apprenticeship-based career pathways that contain solar work as part of a broad-based career path. The President's agenda will ensure that these investments produce good-quality jobs with strong labor standards, including prevailing wages and the free and fair choice to join a union and bargain collectively.
 The solar industry has its roots in America. The United States pioneered the manufacturing and scale-up of solar PV technologies, and American R&D has helped lower manufacturing costs, increase efficiency and performance, and improve reliability of solar technologies. Since then, solar has become a highly competitive global industry. New U.S. investments in solar materials, solar demonstration projects, critical material supply chains, and the building or retooling of manufacturing facilities can help the United States lead once again in the global solar market.

As 
, DOE is pursuing new policy to ensure that all innovations that are developed with taxpayer dollars through DOE's Science and Energy Programs require awardees to substantially manufacture those products in the United States, creating good-paying domestic jobs. This change will cover more than $8 billion in clean energy and climate innovation funding requested in the President's Budget for Fiscal Year 2022, as well as future fiscal year spending. DOE will implement these actions through a Determination of Exceptional Circumstances under the Bayh-Dole Act.

This DOE issue brief underscores the immense opportunity that exists within the solar industry and how key investments, like those proposed in the Build Back Better Agenda, can seize that opportunity. Doing so will create thousands of good-paying, union jobs at home, expand manufacturing, make solar affordable for all communities, and lower monthly utility bills – all while positioning the United States as a leader once again in solar energy and putting us on track to meet President Biden's climate goals.

Read the full issue brief 
.