Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning, the White House has passed along the following:

The President is no longer traveling to Wilmington.

We have a lunch lid until 3 PM. 


A White House Official passes along the following:

As Major General Taylor briefed this AM:

In the last 24 hours, 
and 
 
. Through this effort, the total passenger count for those 38 flights is 
.

Since the end of July, we have relocated approximately 
Since August 14th, we have evacuated approximately


Reportable from a White House official:

This morning, the President met with his national security team. The Vice President joined by secure video teleconference en route to Singapore. They discussed the security situation in Afghanistan and counter-terrorism operations, including ISIS-K. They discussed the massive logistical operation to evacuate American citizens and their families, SIV applicants and their families, and vulnerable Afghans both on US military aircraft as well as flight charters and coalition flights. The national security team discussed the aggressive efforts to finalize agreements with additional third-party country transit hubs. The President and Vice President were joined by Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley, Director Haines, Director Burns, National Security Advisor Sullivan, Ambassador Wilson, General McKenzie, Admiral Vasely, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Finer, Homeland Security Advisor Sherwood-Randall, and other senior officials. 


Lunch lid is extended until 4:30. 


Pool has been told to gather at the stakeout location — will email when we are told more. 


Pool is rolling to an unknown destination as of 5:22pm. 


?POTUS and FLOTUS arrived at the Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown at 5:31pm. They were greeted with some cheering from afar and walked right into the Church. Pool is holding.


?POTUS/FLOTUS, masked, left Church at 6:25pm to cheers from onlookers. They waved at a trio of young ladies standing on their stoop directly across the street (SS wanded them before POTUS came outside), which prompted some screams of delight.

Others came out of their homes as well, or stopped walking the street to see what was going on. One family peered out of their second floor windows, cell phones out, to check out the scene. Down the street from the Church, a small crowd had also gathered by the time mass ended.

We're rolling back to campus. 


We arrived back at the WH at 6:34pm and caught a brief glimpse of POTUS/FLOTUS walking inside.

Travel/photo lid called at 6:34pm. Have a great Saturday evening and rest of the weekend. 


Pool Report below by 
, 




Update on POTUS plans.

He will not be going to Wilmington today.

Travel pool, Covid tested, packed for an overnight trip and expecting an Osprey flights to Delaware, was informed just as the bus pulled to a stop at Joint Base Andrews moments ago.

We are heading back to the White House. 