Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from your in-town pooler, whose perpetual insomnia gave him the opportunity to send you this late (early?) update on noncombatant evacuations from Afghanistan conducted by the U.S. military.

From a White House official:

"On August 19, the U.S. evacuated approximately 3,000 people from Hamid Karzai International Airport on 16 C-17 flights. Nearly 350 U.S. citizens were evacuated. Additional evacuees include family members of U.S. citizens, SIV applicants and their families, and vulnerable Afghans. We have evacuated approximately 9,000 people since August 14. Since the end of July, we have evacuated approximately 14,000 people.

Additionally, in the last 24 hours, the U.S. military facilitated the departure of 11 charter flights. The passengers on those charter flights are not included in the totals above."

More tomorrow (later today?), 


Greetings from the White House where your pooler has been tested and is currently attempting to dry off (from sweat? from rain? who knows?) before President Biden's remarks on the ongoing evacuation efforts in Afghanistan.

Here's a breakdown of today's in-town schedule, per the White House:

At one p.m., President Biden will deliver remarks in the East Room updating the status of evacuations of American citizens, SIV applicants, vulnerable Afghans, and family members thereof from Afghanistan. Vice President Harris will also be in attendance.

After the remarks, 
, President Biden 
as he had been scheduled to do so, per a White House official. He will instead remain at the White House this weekend.

More to come ? stay dry, folks. 


President Biden will remain at the White House 
, rather than all weekend, as your pooler stated in the most recent report. 


The pool is gathering for President Biden's remarks from the East Room, which will be livestreamed 
. 


Press was already gathering, but pooler has been informed that they do not need to yet. (Pooler is staying outside because it is nice.) 


For real this time! 


Two-minute warning in the East Room. 


President Biden, flanked by Vice President Harris, Secretaries Blinken and Austin, and National Security Advisor Sullivan, began speaking at 1:49 p.m. 


After taking questions, President Biden concluded his remarks at 2:16 p.m. 


On background from an administration official:

"An operational update: We evacuated approximately 13,000 people on US military aircraft since August 14, and relocated approximately 18,000 people since the end of July. The US military evacuated 5,700 people in last 24 hours alone. The US military evacuated 3,000 people since last night's update.

On third-party country transit hubs: The Biden Administration is leading an unprecedented and highly complex global effort to coordinate safe transit out of Afghanistan for thousands of US citizens, SIV applicants and their families, vulnerable Afghans, and third-country nationals. We have already secured a number of agreements for these passengers to temporarily transit through other countries, and have been working aggressively to secure additional agreements. We are deeply grateful for the generosity of our international allies and partners, including those who are working shoulder-to-shoulder with us on the ground in Kabul to support what is already one of the largest airlifts in history." 


A travel/photo lid was called at 2:30 p.m (at 8:30 p.m. in Hawaii, a lid was called as well).

Have a good weekend, friends 
 


A lid was called at 8:30 a.m., not p.m., Honolulu time.

Your pooler wishes he were in Hawaii 
 


Like a bad penny, your pooler is once again turning up, this time with a note from a White House official regarding a call between President Biden and the new president of the AFL-CIO:

"The President called Liz Shuler, the new President of AFL-CIO, to congratulate her and her history-making presidency. They discussed the work that the President and AFL-CIO will partner on to create good-paying union jobs, increase union membership, and pay workers a living wage. The President expressed his condolences to Liz on Rich Trumka's passing."

  