Pool Reports by 
, 




?Good morning and happy Labor Day.

Call time was 10am and we now have a lunch lid until 11am.

Current schedule:



 
 




 
 
 


Lunch lid extended to 11:45 am. 


Pool has gathered and is heading to the Wilmington residence.


?Motorcade is rolling to an undisclosed location.


?Motorcade arrived at IBEW Local 313 in Wilmington at 2:02pm.

From White House:

Greeters:
 Lonnie Stephenson, President IBEW
 Bobby Murrian, LU 313 business manager

Background:
 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 313 was established in 1902 and represents 700 active members. Local 313 work predominately as inside lineman in industrial and commercial facilities. They recently had members work on the large Amazon warehouse. In the past they've worked with Dupont Children's Hospital and Christiana Care Hospital. In response to Ida, Local 313 is convening their members to assist with residential homes in neighborhoods hardest hit by the hurricane.

In response to the pandemic, Local 313 and the Wilmington Building Trades worked with the Lt Governor's team to host a vaccine clinic earlier in the year. They will also host a memorial later this year in honor of some of their elderly retirees who passed due to COVID.

International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 126:

Also in attendance will be IBEW Local 126. Local 126 serves Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Eastern Shore of Maryland electrical line construction and maintenance industry. Local 126 members work predominately as Outside Linemen, Tree-Trimmers, Equipment Operators, Teladata and Maintenance Members. Local 126 members have been working on the external lines and power grids to restore power in the aftermath of Ida. 
 [
]

?President Biden arrived at the union hall parking lot, where there is a tent and table set up, with a Capriottis box and left it on a table with other food.

He met and shook hands with several members of the local 313. They stood in a circle while he spoke, which was inaudible to pool. They all applauded at two points. One of the Union members wore a Biden 2020 shirt.

"Come on, let's get something to eat," he said and grabbed a sandwich from the Capriottis box to hand to someone.

Some members took selfies with him and then lined up for more photos with him.

One of the Union members, Michael Simmons, called his mother and put the President on the phone. 
 "I'm with your son," he said. "Mom, I wish you were here. I just stopped by to thank these guys"
 "Happy Labor Day," he said before hanging up.

The President is now taking more photos and selfies with people. 


?"Thanks Joe," one member said and everyone applauded. 
 The President shook more hands before leaving.

Motorcade is rolling at 2:22pm.

Correction: last report should have been labeled #6, apologies.


Motorcade dropped POTUS off at the residence at 2:33pm. Pool did not see him. 


We have a lid until 5:30pm. 


???Motorcade is rolling to? Delaware Air National Guard Base for the President's departure for the White House. 


?Motorcade arrived at DANG at 7:08pm for the departure.


??POTUS and FLOTUS boarded and Marine One lifted at 7:17pm.

From the White House-

Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One:

Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
 Jonathan Cedarbaum, Deputy Counsel to the President and NSC Legal Advisor

That's a wrap, handing over to in-town pool.

Hope everyone had a nice Labor Day. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




It's a gorgeous evening here at the White House where we are anticipating a delayed POTUS arrival on the South Lawn. In town pool call time has been pushed one hour to 7:30 p.m. 


Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 8:07 p.m.

POTUS and FLOTUS walked across the lawn toward the White House and just as they hit the edge of the grass, POTUS sharply changed direction to approach the pool.

It seemed he wanted to make a statement and started off by saying "we've got a big day tomorrow" but broke off as members of the pool began shouting questions about Afghanistan.

With the helicopter noise in the background POTUS seemed to not clearly hear or perhaps not understand a question about Afghans trapped in other countries.

In response to another shouted question about whether he will "recognize the Taliban," POTUS said:

"That's a long way off. That's a long way off."

Then he turned and walked into the White House with FLOTUS.

As of 8:15 p.m. we have a travel photo lid.

Have a great night all. 