Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House. It's currently sunny and 75 degrees. I'll be your pooler for today.

No changes to POTUS schedule. Here is the schedule the White House sent last night:



 




 


 
 






Please reach out if you have any questions. 


We still have not gathered for Biden's remarks on labor unions, which are scheduled for 11:20 a.m. Will send an update when we officially gather. 


We are now gathering at the Palm Room Doors ahead of Biden's remark, which will take place in the East Room. Biden's remarks will be streamed at 


I'll send color from the room. 


We are now waiting for the president to speak in the East Room.

Some color from the room:

The podium is right underneath the chandelier. Two flags are behind the podium, the American flag and the flag with the presidential coat of arms. The president does have an audience of about 60 people. 


2-minute warning on Biden's remarks 


President Biden entered the East Room at 11:41 a.m., accompanied by Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, AFL-CIO President Liz Shuler and United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Member Jocelyn Cruces. The audience cheered after the four entered the room.

Walsh gave opening remarks, where he announced that essential workers during COVID-19 pandemic will be inducted into the department's hall of honor. Biden stood to the left of the podium, closest to the American flag. Schuler and Cruces stood towards right of the podium. 


Biden began speaking at 11:59 am, where he was met with applause.

The president is wearing a blue and white tie and a black mask, which he took off when he began speaking. 


Biden concluded his remarks at 12:20 p.m. He received a standing ovation before heading into the audience. Members of the audience began to crowd around the president. He did not take any questions. 


Should have noted that Biden did not take questions from the press and no questions were shouted. 


We have a lunch lid until 1:45 p.m. 


Two-minute warning for press briefing 


Press briefing began at 2:16 p.m. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack and Director of the National Economic Council Brian Deese are in attendance. 


Press briefing ended at 3:19 p.m. 


A travel/photo lid has been called at 3:47 p.m. Happy Wednesday, all! 