

WASHINGTON -- As the remnants of Hurricane Ida have moved off shore, states from the Gulf Coast to New England are assessing the damage. The storm's flooding and tornadoes on Wednesday came days after causing widespread wind, storm surge and flooding in Louisiana and Mississippi. FEMA staff are working throughout the nation to support other ongoing hurricane and flood response efforts and wildfires in the West.

There are 11 FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams deployed to support states affected by Hurricane Ida. Five are in Louisiana, two in Mississippi, one in New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. AmeriCorps has activated and deployed 14 FEMA Corps teams from the Southern Region Campus in Vicksburg, Miss., to support the FEMA IMAT and disaster survivor assistance in Louisiana and Mississippi.

The National Emergency Management Association is helping facilitate additional resources to the Gulf Coast through the Emergency Management Assistance Compact. Resources from 13 states have been sent to assist with ongoing response and recovery efforts.

While images of Hurricane Ida's destruction in Louisiana and Mississippi may compel volunteers to head to the affected areas, they should not travel or send unsolicited donations until communities have identified needs. In the meantime, visit the National Voluntary Organizations Active in a Disaster 
 page to identify reputable organizations to make cash donations.



More than 1,100 FEMA employees are deployed to support Ida response and recovery efforts in the region. In addition, FEMA deployed ambulance crews to Louisiana and Mississippi to help with patient transport. If needed, 150 ambulances/1,000 paratransit seats and emergency medical service providers are in the area, including 30 air ambulances.

Visit FEMA's 
 webpage for information and resources available for residents in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and other areas that may be affected by Ida. The page is available in French, Haitian Creole, Simplified Chinese, Spanish and Vietnamese.
