Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from the White House. The temperature is 71 degrees, under a blue sky and a handful of white clouds. It's a morning for putting on postcards.

Your pooler was tested for COVID-19, following the usual procedures for the protective pool, and is wearing a mask inside the press workspace.

We're now waiting for President Biden's scheduled 9:50 AM departure from the South Lawn of the White House. He's slated for a day trip to New York and New Jersey to attend meetings about the impacts of Hurricane Ida. 


Pool has gathered for President Biden's departure from the South Lawn. 


President Biden walked out of the south portico of the White House at 9:47 am.

He came over briefly to talk to reporters.

He was asked about what he wants to see on the trip today in New York and New Jersey. He said, "I'm hoping to see the things we're going to be able to fix permanently with the build that we have in for infrastructure."

Asked how he's going to get Democrats on board for his infrastucture proposal he said: "The sun is going to come out tomorrow."

It was hard to hear over the helicopter and cross talk. Please check quotes against transcript. 


From a White House official:

On Thursday the President will speak to the American people about his robust plan to stop the spread of the Delta variant and boost vaccinations. As the President has said since day 1, his administration will pull every lever to get the pandemic under control. On Thursday, the President will lay out a six pronged strategy that will help us do just that, working across the public and private sectors. 


Gathering at 6:30 pm for Marine One arrival on the South Lawn. 


President Biden stepped off Marine One onto the South Lawn at 6:44 pm. First Lady Jill Biden was watching from the South Portico balcony. Biden waved to her as he walked across the lawn.

Biden came to talk briefly with reporters.

He spoke about his trip to NY and New Jersey and said he's "confident" his administration can get help to the people that need it.

He was asked about his next steps on the pandemic. He said he'd talk about that tomorrow or Thursday.

He was asked about China funding the Taliban. Biden: "China has a real problem with the Taliban."

Asked if he had spoken with Sen. Manchin on infrastructure, Biden said: "Joe at the end has always been there. He's always been with me. I think we can work something out."

Will send fuller quotes shortly. 


Here are fuller quotes from Biden's arrival at the White House.

Biden spoke with reporters for about 1 min 30 seconds.

On his trip to NY and New Jersey:

"A great trip to New Jersey and New York. People need help. I'm confident we can give it to them. I'm confident we can help change their circumstances."

Asked about his next steps on the pandemic and what he will lay out: "I'll talk about it tomorrow. Or Thursday."

Q: Are you worried the Taliban will get funding from China?

Biden: "Well, China has a real problem with the Taliban. So [inaudible] going to try to work out some arrangement with the Taliban. As does Pakistan as does Russia as does Iran. We're all trying to figure out what do they do now. It'll be interesting to see what happens."

Asked if he had spoken with Sen. Manchin on infrastructure, Biden said: "Joe at the end has always been there. He's always been with me. I think we can work something out. I look forward to speaking with him."

Q: Are you comfortable with the timing of the bill? Seing what you've seen in New Jersey today and New York, should the first bill that gets passed be on that?

Biden: "I'm comfortable proceeding the way we've proceeded so far."

As always, check quotes against transcript. 


White House called a lid at 6:52 pm.

Good night all. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




Good morning from Joint Base Andrews.

President Biden is to arrive here shortly to fly to NYC, from where he will visit flood damaged neighborhoods in north central New Jersey and Queens. The remnants of Hurricane Ida killed about 50 people in the northeast as it passed through.

Reminder that Jen Psaki is scheduled to take questions from the pool en route to New York. The audio will be streamed back to the WH as well as through the WH web site.

Pool cannot transmit from the plane in flight, and the gaggle will likely take place just before landing, and we will be scrambling to board the Ospreys right afterward, so if you want full details from the gaggle in a timely manner, pool respectfully suggests you tune in.


Marine 1 touched down at Joint Base Andrews here in suburban Maryland at 1000.

Per the WH press office:

Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.

Traveling with the President to New Jersey and New York:

FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
 Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
 Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisory
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
 Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary 
 Julissa Reynoso, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the First Lady
 Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
 Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
 Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
 Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director 


President Biden stepped off Marine 1 at 1003 and walked to the stairs leading to the forward door of AF1. He waved to but did not engage with the press pool gathered just ahead of the port wing.

We are flying today aboard one of the two modified Boeing 747s, tail number 28000.

We should be airborne shortly.


AF1 landed at Kennedy airport in Queens at 1055 after a 40-minute flight. Press secretary Jen Psaki conducted a 17-minute Q-and-A toward the end of the flight, taking questions on:

Biden's upcoming COVID speech on Thursday.
 Afghanistan and the Americans still there
 Climate change
 Build back better plan
 Joe Manchin
 Texas voting law
 Texas abortion law

Some quotes coming when possible.


POTUS is aboard Marine 1, New York City edition, at 1110, ready for departure to New Jersey.

Psaki on Taliban:

"There is no rush to recognition."

Said that would depend on their behavior. Including how they treated American and Afghan allies trying to leave. Said she would not characterize what's going on as a hostage situation.

Climate change

"No one is immune to climate change"

Said every dollar spent now saves $6 in future.

(Too loud for further transcribing because of Ospreys)


Marine 1 touched down at Central Jersey Regional Airport in Hillsborough Township at 1137 following a 20-minute flight across the mouth of New York harbor and then west.

Per the WH press office:

Upon arrival at Central Jersey Regional Airport, the President will be greeted by:
 Governor Phil Murphy (NJ)
 First Lady Tammy Murphy (NJ)
 Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-07)
 Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06)
 Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)


The president chatted a few minutes with local members of Congress and Gov. Murphy on the tarmac of the tiny airport.

At 1144 he climbed into his Suburban for the drive to the Somerset County Emergency Management Training Center.

At 1145 we are rolling.


The president's motorcade arrived at the training center at 1200.

The route through town provided evidence of the flood damage, with piles of garbage bags and sodden furniture heaped along the curbs.

The streets were also lined with residents holding cell phones above their heads. Among them were large clumps of Trump supporters waving signs and shouting.


The president sat at the head of a big U made up of 11 folding tables. To his right, Gov. Murphy, to his left, FEMA director Deanne Criswell. They sat in a large garage with painted concrete floors. Pallets of water bottles and food were arranged behind him. Maps of the affected areas to either side.

The president began speaking at 1223.

"You really took a hit."

"The losses we witnessed were profound."

Expressed condolences to the families of those who died.

"I'm here to see first-hand what the damage is."

He listed off the various help that FEMA has provided, and his major disaster declaration.

"Climate change is here. We're living through it now. "

Every part of the country is getting hit by extreme weather."

Said the country needs to

The club but R has finally acknowledged that climate change is real."

We're at one of those inflection points where we act, or we're going to be in real, real trouble."

(Please check quotes against recording/transcript)

Per the WH press office:

In attendance for the President's briefing with local leaders:
 FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
 Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
 Governor Phil Murphy (NJ)
 Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-07)
 Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06)
 Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)
 New Jersey State Police Colonel & Superintendent Pat Callahan
 Somerset County Commissioner President Shanel Robinson
 Mayor Christopher Bollwage (Elizabeth, NJ)
 Mayor Shawn Lipani (Hillsborough, NJ)
 Mayor Hector Lora (Passaic City, NJ)
 Mayor Lou Manzo (Harrison, NJ)
 Mayor Richard Onderko (Manville, NJ) 


The mayor of Manville is not in the room. Here is the corrected list:

In attendance for the President's briefing with local leaders:
 FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
 Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
 Governor Phil Murphy (NJ)
 Representative Tom Malinowski (NJ-07)
 Representative Frank Pallone (NJ-06)
 Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12)
 New Jersey State Police Colonel & Superintendent Pat Callahan
 Somerset County Commissioner President Shanel Robinson
 Mayor Christopher Bollwage (Elizabeth, NJ)
 Mayor Shawn Lipani (Hillsborough, NJ)
 Mayor Hector Lora (Passaic City, NJ)
 Mayor Lou Manzo (Harrison, NJ) 


The president's motorcade left the Somerset County Emergency Management Training Center at 1358 en route to a flood-damaged neighborhood in Manville, NJ.


President Biden's motorcade arrived in Manville, NJ, at 1415 where he is to tour the flood damage in the Lost Valley neighborhood. 


The president got out of his SUV in shirt sleeves, shaking hands and chatting with residents had emptied the contents of their homes onto the curbs.

Sen. Booker walked ahead, introducing himself and chatting.

(Biden was out of earshot, but a Trump flag waving guy and his family stood in their yard one street over, calling Biden a tyrant and demanding that he resign.) 


Biden was close enough to hear shouted questions.

Asked about the damage, he said he had seen water marks as high as the windows of the homes.

"Literally over your head. That is pretty amazing. "

Biden then introduced the pool with a family (names coming, per WH) whose home was totally destroyed by a fire that began as the flooding happened.

"Well, thank God you're safe," Biden told them.

Per a FEMA official on the tour, the neighborhood, right on the banks of the Millstone River, was over saturated to start with when it received record rainfall.

The pro-Trump group screaming at Biden got a contingent of USSS agents to focus on them as Biden continued his walk, speaking with more residents, including a small boy who Sen. Booker had engaged with minutes earlier.

At 1456, the pool is rolling back toward the airport and the waiting helicopters.


At 1502 the president is aboard Marine 1 for the short flight to LaGuardia airport.

Pool has loaded onto Ospreys and we should lift momentarily.


Marine 1 set down on the tarmac at Queens' other airport at 1530.

We are boarding a motorcade for the drive to a nearby neighborhood to visit flood damage here in New York City, as well.

Per the WH:

Upon arrival at LaGuardia Airport, the President will be greeted by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer. 


The motorcade is underway at 1537.


The presidential motorcade came to a stop just minutes from the airport.

Pool is an alley between two rows of three-story walkups. A lectern is set up just behind us where Biden is to give remarks.

POTUS is outside of our vision at the moment.


The president walked down the alley of broken asphalt and occasional puddles , in shirtsleeves and wearing a black mask, beside him Sen Schumer, Mayor DeBlasio and others in tow, greeting residents.

(Tech note: DeBlasio appears to be wearing a Blackberry on his hip. )

(Biden's remarks are to carried by CSPAN)


Biden is about to give his remarks in Queens, with a backdrop of torn up, mildewy drywall stacked in a heap. (Possibly obscured by all the local officials around him.)

(They are being carried live on cspan and elsewhere.)

Residents in the alley said they had been waiting hours to see Biden in a neighborhood that saw its basements flooded to the ceiling, including some basement apartments.

"And there he is, the president of the United States. God bless," said one as Biden approached.

Per the WH:

Governor Kathy Hochul (NY)
 Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
 Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
 Mayor Bill de Blasio (NY)
 Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)
 Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)
 Representative Gregory Meeks (NY-05)
 Representative Grace Meng (NY-06)
 Queens Borough President Donovan Richards (NY) 


Biden took the lectern at 1640.

From the WH, additional attendees:

State Senator Brian Benjamin (NY)
 New York Attorney General Letitia "Tish" James
 New York Public Advocate Jumaane Williams
 Speaker Carl Heastie, New York State Assembly
 State Senator Jessica Ramos (NY-13)
 Assemblymember Jessica González-Rojas (NY-34) 


The president wrapped at 1655 after speaking for 15 minutes.

(The remarks were not amplified at the site, so please check quotes against recording and transcript. )

He spoke of the damage he had seen, pointed out that the people of this neighborhood were not wealthy.

"These are the first ones who are hurt, and the last ones who are helped. Well, that's not going to happen this time."

He said climate change was an international problem and needed a global response.

"We've got to move the rest of the world. Not just America."

"The threat is here. it's not going to get any better. The question is is going to get worse."

Said action was necessary now to prevent even storms and destruction in the future.

"This is code red. The nation and the world are in peril."

He pushed his infrastructure plans, both the bipartisan plan passed by the Senate as well as his build back better plan to make bridges and roads and electricity grids able yo withstand more severe weather.

"It saves us 6$ for every dollar we spend doing those things."

He finished his speech at 1654, then engaged with a family watching from an elevated back porch, including the seven year old child, promising, that anytime America confronts a difficult problem, it manages to solve it.

"The thing about America, every time we end up with a problem, going into a serious circumstance, we come out better than we went in. That's because we're so diverse. That's America."


At the 1706 the motorcade was rolling back toward the northern Queens airport to take helicopters back to the southern Queens airport for the flight home.


At 1713 President Biden was back aboard Marine 1 for the short hop south to Kennedy airport and Air Force 1.

We should be in the air within minutes.


President Biden stepped off of the helicopter and climbed up the steps to Air Force 1 at 1731.

He did not stop to take questions from the pool, who are now boarding up the aft door.

We should be in the air shortly for the flight home.


Air Force 1 touched down at Joint Base Andrews at 1818 following a quick, 38-minute flight back from New York.

President Biden came down the stairs 10 minutes later, greeted by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, and walked directly to Marine 1, DC edition, and stepped aboard at 1829.

The helicopter was aloft at 1834 bound for the White House.

Handing off to my in-town colleague for the remainder of the day.

Until next time. 