Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, your pool has been tested and just arrived at the Naval Observatory.
VP Kamala Harris is hosting Chancellor Angela Merkel at the Naval Observatory for a breakfast meeting this morning. This meeting is the first time Harris has hosted a foreign leader at the vice president's residence since taking office.
Call, text, or email with any questions.
Pool is waiting for the Chancellor's arrival and we haven't seen the Vice President yet. ?We are standing outside the front doors of the residence and hear Merkel is on the way.
Background from the VP's office—
On background, here is some information about today's meeting:
Call, text, or email with any questions.
Merkel arrived and Harris greeted her at the car door. They stood at the driveway and exchanged words but the pool was not able to hear.
They walked towards the front doors and stopped for a couple minutes. Harris welcomed Merkel and called her career "extraordinary."
Merkel said, from the translator, that she is excited to meet the first Madam Vice President of the United States of America
"Please, let's have breakfast, please," Harris said. ?
The two are now inside the residence and pool is leaving. Will send full remarks soon.
Call, text, or email with any questions.
Harris and Merkel spoke for just under 2 minutes outside the front door of the vice president's residence.
Harris: "We are pleased to welcome you Madam Chancellor and I know we are the fourth administration that you have worked with throughout your extraordinary career. I want to thank you for your years of leadership. I'm very proud that I believe that I am the first vice president to host you at the official residence of the vice president."
Merkel responded, inaudible, and Harris laughed and smiled.
Harris: "Well, I'm very honored to see you and I look forward to our conversation and it goes without saying that the relationship between our two countries is one founded on many shared values, including a commitment to democracy around the world. So, welcome, welcome."
Merkel, from the translator: "I can only say that I'm delighted too for this opportunity here to meet the first Madam Vice President of the United States of America and I think that we can indeed cooperate very well in order to boost values and also continue to build on them [inaudible]"
Harris: "Please, let's have breakfast, please."
The two then entered the front door of the residence.
Pool is back at the White House. We've asked what is on the menu for breakfast, but haven't heard yet.
Call, text, or email with any questions.
Some more background from the VP's office—
Color from a WH official:
The Vice President and Chancellor Merkel had a wide-ranging and very candid discussion. Topics crossed both domestic and international issues including current challenges, history between the two counties and future endeavors.
Attached and below is the menu from today:
An official readout is forthcoming
Breakfast menu—
Breakfast in Honor of Her Excellency
Dr. Angela Merkel
Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany
Gruyère Soufflé
Arugula Salad, Residence Garden Herbs
Fresh Seasonal Fruit
Fresh Baked Sourdough Bread
Prosciutto . Salami . Cucumber
Coffee, Fresh Squeezed Orange Juice
And, that's a wrap! Stay cool and let me know any questions.