Today, tens of millions of American families will begin to see their first monthly Child Tax Credit payments. The Department of Treasury estimates that $15 billion were distributed today to tens of millions of working families with 60 million children. For the 86% of families using direct deposit, they will receive their child payment today, July 15th, and the 15th of every month for the rest of 2021. It will show up in their bank accounts described as "ChildCTC." Others will receive their check in the mail today or in the coming days.
The American Rescue Plan is providing the 
 Child Tax Credit – increasing from $2,000 per child to $3,000 for each child between the ages of 6 and 17, and to $3,600 for each child under the age of 6. 
Nearly all middle-class families will receive the expanded child tax credit, to help them meet the costs of raising children with the security and dignity they deserve. And because monthly payments start today, they won't have to wait until tax season for tax relief that millions of families need now.
 Today, 
after the American Rescue Plan was signed into law, tens of millions of families with nearly 60 million children are receiving the first-ever 
 of the Child Tax Credit
 This reflects the swift implementation efforts of the White House, Treasury, and the IRS.
: The Treasury Department estimates that 
 of families that will receive the expanded Child Tax Credit are working families with wages or self-employment income. And for the families that don't have income, many of those are seniors taking care of grandchildren or people with serious disabilities and health issues.
 Treasury estimates that the hard-pressed low-income families of over 26 million children that previously would have gotten a smaller Child Tax Credit than families with higher earnings, will now receive the full expanded Child Tax Credit. Prior to the American Rescue Plan, researchers found that over half of Black and Hispanic children were in families ineligible for the full Child Tax Credit because of too little earnings.
The expanded Child Tax Credit is the main driver in experts' projections that the American Rescue Plan could cut child poverty by around half. Even by the most conservative estimates, the Child Tax Credit alone is projected to reduce child poverty by a multiple of any 
.
 Studies show that children whose families get more in refundable credits do 
 and 
, are more likely to 
 and 
, and 
 as adults. These children are also less likely to face the early onset of disabilities and health issues like 
 that can represent key barriers to employment later in life. In fact, research from Columbia University 
 that each $1 invested in the Child Tax Credit returns over $8 to society in improved health for children and their parents, better educational outcomes and higher future incomes, and reduced crime and criminal justice costs.
 The American Rescue Plan's expanded Child Tax Credit is only for 2021. This is a historic investment that will lift children and working families out of poverty. That's why President Biden believes that we should extend the new Child Tax Credit for years and years to come. He is proposing that we do so in his American Families Plan and Build Back Better agenda.