Pool Reports by 
, 
Howdy. It's a balmy 90 degree afternoon with little cloud cover and ample humidity at the White House today. It's brutal out here. Pool is gathering before our sojourn to Capitol Hill.
The heat didn't stop teen pop star Olivia Rodrigo from arriving in a pink, black and white Clueless-esque gingham co-ord mini-skirt suit set and towering white platform shoes around 11:30 a.m.—unfortunately, I wasn't able to see her arriving, but I caught some footage via the always talented pool photographers and C-SPAN feed. Feeling some jealousy, jealousy over here.
I haven't gotten a sense of when her meeting with Fauci and the President will happen, but I assure you I will let you know as soon as I can. As a reminder, POTUS + Fauci will film vaccination PSAs to be released on Rodrigo's and the White Houses' social channels.
Besides being a Gen-Z influencer for a day, here's what else is on the President's public schedule: 
Pool began rolling to the Capitol at 1:03 PM. Pool briefly caught a glimpse of POTUS - he's wearing a dark suit.
Surprise, we're running a touch behind schedule. I'll be in touch once we're up on the Hill. Chao.
Pool arrived at the Capitol at 1:09 pm we hit no red lights, stop signs on our uneventful ride over. A few supporters waved at the motorcade as we wizzed past.
Biden approached a gaggle of reporters, including your pool, outside the lunch room in the Capitol and jokingly mused "is this my homecoming?" When asked by a reporter if he could keep Democrats on board in regards to budget reconciliation. Biden replied "we're going to get this done." He did not answer any other yelled question. Biden was walking aside Chuck Schumer.
Biden entered the lunch room at 1:12 pm. Pool is holding at a crowded gaggle.
Biden exited the Mansfield Room (S207) at 2:00
Biden approached the pool, and while he took no questions, he told the pool that it's "great to be home, great to be back with all my colleagues, and I think we're going to get a lot done."
We're rolling back home.
The White House passes along details about the lunch:
In attendance from the administration for the President's lunch with the Senate Democratic Caucus:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the President
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic Council
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liason
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Press Secretary
Pool arrived back at the White House at 2:10 pm. --
Passing this along from the White House!
In attendance for the President's meeting with a bipartisan group of Governors and Mayors:
Vice President Kamala Harris
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce
Secretary Marty Walsh, Department of Labor
Governor Phil Murphy (NJ)
Governor JB Pritzker (IL)
Governor Phil Scott (VT)
Mayor Nan Whaley, Dayton, OH
Mayor David Holt, Oklahoma City, OK
Mayor Kate Gallego, Phoenix, AZ
Mayor Michael Hancock, Denver, CO
Mayor Sandy Stimpson, Mobile, AL
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Intergovernmental Affairs
Michael Collins, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Public Engagement & IGA for the Vice President
Gabe Amo, Deputy Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Evan Wessel, Policy Advisor to the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 3:50 pm. Below are some highlights from his brief remarks. He spoke for about three minutes. No news really.
As always, please check against the playback and the audio. I'll attach an audio file, but be aware there's a little bit of cross talk. Biden was quite soft spoken.
"We have a chance to solve these problems, a bipartisan chance to solve these problems. Create millions of jobs—literally."
"Were going to get something done and that's why I think my Build Back agenda is all about."
"Mayors and governors, [crosstalk] we're going to get this done. And what we're going to do is, time to stop talking about it and time to get you the resources. What I want to talk about today is what you need most..."
He took two shouted questions. First, are the pay-fors intact?
"I think we're in good shape. There may be some slight adjustments in the pay fors...We have an agreement, we have an agreement, there might be some slight changes. I am not sure what may happen."
When asked if the two track strategy may jeopardize the future of either bill, Biden said "No, I think it is the only way to get it done...with two tracks."
A travel/photo lid has been called at 4:13 pm.
Also, here's a link to the audio - my attachment couldn't be sent through. Sorry about that! 
Passing along a statement from Jen Psaki via the WH:
The President will meet with General Miller today to thank the General for his extraordinary service in Afghanistan. As the final commander of the Resolute Support Mission, General Miller oversaw the vast majority of our drawdown from Afghanistan, which is a particularly vulnerable period for our troops. That this drawdown has been conducted in such an orderly and safe way is a testament to General Miller's leadership, and the President looks forward to personally thanking him later today.