Pool Reports by 
, 




Vice President Kamala Harris arrived to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport with wheels down at 12:40 p.m. in the Air Force 2.

She was greeted by Lt. Governor Garlin Gilchrist II, U.S. Rep. Rashida Tlaib, and U.S. Rep. Brenda Lawrence in that order.


Vice President Kamala Harris is departing in the motorcade from Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport at 12:46 p.m. and is heading to the TCF Center in Detroit, MI.


Vice President Kamala Harris has arrived to the TCF Center in the motorcade in Detroit, MI at 1:12 p.m.

During the first event, which is set to start at 2 p.m., she is expected to hold a listening session about voting rights with Michigan State Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson and community advocates. 


Vice President Kamala Harris hosted a listening session that started at 2:00 p.m., in which she discussed voting rights.

She gave praise to the legislatures in Texas, for the work their "extraordinary courage and commitment" for American voter rights.

"I do believe that fighting for the right to vote is as American as apple pie," said Vice President Kamala Harris.

She said people voted in Michigan because Michiganders wanted a National plan for vaccinations, "wanted to see children in America lifted out of poverty," and wanted more journalists.

Vice President Harris said the Biden Administration, Secretary of State and congress will work together to make sure all Americans will be able to express their voices through the ballot.

The listening session includes:


 Also in the room:

 The remarks scheduled for 3:25 will be livestreamed on 


A vaccine mobilization event for the "We Can Do This" tour took place starting around 2:40p.m., which was opened by the "The Star-Spangled Banner" sang by the Detroit Youth Choir, followed by Norman Clement from Detroit Change Initiative and Detroit native Loni Love from the talk show The Real.

There was a pause for the event's official start until 3:21 p.m. The audience included community leaders, elected officials and frontline worke

U.S. Representative Rashida Tlaib opened the event and spoke about the voter confrontation that took place during the 2020 election outside of the TCF Center. U.S. Representative Brenda Lawrence followed and encouraged people to get the vaccination.

"I want you to know that black and brown communities have been disproportionately affected by this pandemic," said U.S. Representative Brenda Lawrence. "We have an opportunity. We have a responsibility and we have a moment where we can step up. For those of you who have not gotten their vaccine, I still love you, but from a distance."

Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan praised Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer and the Biden Administration for their vaccination efforts. Duggan noted that in Detroit, there are less than 40% residents vaccinated.

Lt. Governor Garlin Gilchrist opened his statement with "What up doe, Detroit." He said Detroit was the last place Harris visited before becoming Vice President. He said he lost 27 people to COVID-19.

Some people in the crowd chanted "Big Gretch" as Governor Gretchen Whitmer entered the room. She said, "We have more work to do," when it comes to getting people vaccinated in Michigan. She praised the Biden-Harris Administration in their efforts of getting people vaccinated.

"Michigan will emerge stronger than ever," said Gov. Whitmer. She said sign up for the vaccination lottery for cash prizes.

Vice President Kamala Harris entered the room with a warm welcome from the crowd.

"Detroit really is the definition of resilience," Harris said.

"As COVID-19 cases rose, it was Detroit's frontline workers that worked around the clock," said Harris. She praises frontline workers for risking their lives during the coronavirus pandemic to take care of strangers.

### Notes will continue in next report…


We're at about 3:55p.m. Vice President Kamala Harris is continuing to speak in the "We Can Do This" tour in the TCF Center in Detroit, MI.

"There are still a whole lot of folks who are not yet vaccinated, and that is certainly true here in Detroit," said VP Kamala Harris.

"We are bringing the facts, not misinformation — the facts," Harris said.

They have goals to "bring the vaccine directly to the people." They are having people go door-to-door for vaccines. "We shouldn't require that people knock on our door to find out what's going on." They're also giving vaccines to pediatricians and setting up vaccine clinics.

"This delta variant is no joke," Harris said. She said virtually every person in the hospital sick with covid-19 right now is unvaccinated. "It's a fact," she added. She also said virtually everyone who has recently died from covid-19 is also unvaccinated.

She joked that she was feeling a little sick on the second day of her covid-19 vaccine which she received in January. "Just a few hours that can save your life."

She recommends talking to people "out of love" and encourage people to get vaccinated.

She ended her speech at p.m.

VP ended her remarks at 4:07 p.m. She will deliver remarks at a Whitmer for Michigan finance event after. 


At about 5:30 p.m., Vice President Kamala Harris began speaking at the Michigan for Whitmer finance event.

"The President and I stand with Gretchen Whitmer," VP Kamala Harris said.

VP Harris said Gov. Whitmer "never waned" and that she gets up every morning to fight for the people in Michigan.

"She is one of those rare leaders who puts what's right ahead of what's popular to represent the people," VP Kamala Harris said.

VP Kamala Harris acknowledged that this won't be an easy election, and wants Michiganders to do everything they can to re-elect Gov. Whitmer.

VP Kamala Harris said that upgrading Michigans infrastructure expands beyond roads. It goes into internet access and others, as well.

"You maintain fight while you also maintain an incredible sense of optimism," Vice President Kamala Harris said about Gov. Gretchen Whitmer.

She thanked everyone in the crowd of about 40 people.. Her remarks finished at 5:37 p.m.


Vice President Kamala Harris and the motorcade departed from the TCF Center at 5:48 p.m.


Vice President Kamala Harris departed from the Detroit Metropolitan Airport at 6:31 p.m.