Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning --

I'll be your in-town pooler today. The pool isn't actually called until noon, but the White House has already circulated this preview of the president's remarks on the state of the vaccination campaign. The remarks are scheduled for 2:45 p.m.

On background from a WH official:




The press briefing is now scheduled to begin at 1 p.m. 


We have a two minute warning for the press briefing. 


The press briefing ended at 2:06 p.m.

The pool is currently scheduled to gather at 2:25 p.m. for the president's remarks on the vaccination program, which will be in the South Court Auditorium. 


The pool is heading in to the South Court Auditorium ahead of the president's remarks. The event will stream in the usual places.

I'll try to give a two minute warning, but it can be challenging to get a signal in there.


The White House passes along the following:

In attendance with the President at the COVID-19 briefing:
 


Dr. Anthony Fauci, Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and Chief Medical Advisor to the President
 Vivek Murthy, Surgeon General of the United States
 Natalie Quillian, Deputy COVID-19 Response Coordinator
 Jeff Zients, White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator
 Ron Klain, Chief of Staff
 Dr. Rochelle Walensky, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (virtual)
 Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith Senior Advisor to the COVID-19 Response Team (virtual)
 Dr. Bechara Choucair, White House Vaccinations Coordinator (virtual)
 Carole Johnson, COVID-19 Testing Coordinator (virtual)


Two minute warning for the POTUS remarks on vaccines. The blue backdrop on the stage features the slogan "WE CAN DO THIS"


POTUS concluded the event at 3:15 p.m. He took one question on ransomware and said he would have more to say "in the next several days."

The remarks were streaming, but a highlight was that he made another plea for people who have not yet been vaccinated against COVID-19 to get vaccinated. The president highlighted efforts to bring more vaccines to local communities, as well as the effort to have surge response teams for places where the Delta variant spreads among populations with low vaccination rates.

"Now we need to go community by community, neighborhood by neighborhood," the president said. He said vaccines would be increasingly available to family doctors and similar health care providers serving younger people, including at fall sports physicals. 


A lid was called as of 3:25 p.m.