Pool Reports by 
, 




Press is gathered on the South Lawn for POTUS's Marine One departure for Illinois. Waiting for POTUS to walk out to the helicopter. It's sunny, 87 degrees and humid in Washington today.


POTUS walked out of the West Wing at 10:45 am.

Biden walked near the press corps very briefly and gave a couple short answers to questions on the deadly attack on the Haitian President and on cyber.

Comment on Haiti: "We need a lot more information." "Very worrisome."

He was asked what his message to Putin is after meeting with advisors on ransomware this morning. Your pooler could not hear his response.

Marine One took off at 10:52 am. 


On Haitian President:

"We need a lot more information but it is very worrisome about the state of Haiti."

On his message for Putin after meeting with advisors on ransomware today:

(There wasn't a mic in position to pick this up. This is what it looks like Biden said.)

"I'll deliver it to him."

From the White House press office---

Traveling with the President on Marine One:




Pool Reports below by 
, 




Background from the WH on today's trip to Illinois:



 Out-of-Town Travel Pool

 White House Press Office

 July 7, 2021

 Background for the President's Visit to Illinois



When taken together with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework, the Biden-Harris Administration's Build Back Better (BBB) Agenda is a once-in-a-generation investment in our nation's future.

At McHenry County College, which has workforce training programs and onsite child care, the President will underscore the specific, game-changing impacts that the Build Back Better Agenda will have on Americans' lives and how, from an economic growth and competitiveness standpoint, we can't afford to wait to deliver on it.









Growing evidence suggests that 13 years of school is no longer enough to prepare our students for success in today's economy. And yet the cost of education beyond high school has become unaffordable to too many.











One in four community college students are parents, and lack of access to affordable, quality child care poses a significant barrier to college completion. Only 18% of student parents complete their degree within six years, compared to 60% of all students. More broadly, 57% of children under six-years-old have parents who report there are no good choices for child care where they live. Child care workers are among the most underpaid workers, and more than nine in ten child care workers are women and nearly half are women of color. Access to affordable child care also gives parents the flexibility to keep working, take a promotion, study, save, and retire more securely. By capping child care costs and letting more parents go to work, it's estimated parents' employment will increase to 20 percent.















McHenry County College (MCC) is a community college with two satellite facilities—a workforce development and training facility and a Welding Boot Camp—all of which are located in McHenry County, Illinois.

According to the Department of Education, approximately 7,473 students attend MCC, not including the thousands of students enrolled in non-credit programs. About a quarter of students attending MCC are Latino/a, and the college is a designated Hispanic-serving Institution (HSI). The majority of students at MCC are low-income students or working learners: 16% of students who attend receive a Pell Grant and 72% enroll part-time. Tuition and fees for a full-time student in 2020-21 cost $3,862, which is below the national median and below the average community college tuition in Illinois. Only 6% of students at MCC take out federal student loans.

MCC received approximately $17 million through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES) and Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSSA), and will receive approximately $9 million through the American Rescue Plan (ARP). MCC offered flexible formats of class delivery in the spring, offering in-person classes, online courses, or a blend of both.

McHenry County College has an on-site child care facility – the Children's Learning Center – that provides child care and preschool for both community college students and community members.

And here's some data points about the impact of the American Rescue Plan and the President's agenda in Illinois:





Employment
5,329,800 (May `20)
5,720,400 (May `21)
Unemployment Rate
15.4% (May `20)
7.1% (May `21)
GDP Growth
-6.6% (Q1 `20)
6.6% (Q1 `21)
Renters Behind on Payments
673,000 (27%)

(July `20)
456,000 (17%)

(June `21)
Adults Reporting Children are Hungry
868,000 (24%)

(July `20)
242,000 (8%)

(June `21)


POTUS arrived at JBA at 11:01 am Eastern time on Marine One and boarded AF1 for today's quick trip to Illinois. We should be rolling soon.

Your pooler is looking forward to a bit of a break from the swampy weather in DC, where temps were already nearing 90 degrees when POTUS landed.

No comments to the press here, but we are expecting an on-board gaggle from Jen Psaki that should be streaming back to the White House.

From the WH:

Greeting the President at JBA:

Col. William "Chris" McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander

Traveling with the President to Illinois:




We are rolling at 11:14 am eastern.

Next stop, Chicago. 


AF1 landed in Chicago at 11:38 am central time after an uneventful flight.

Press secretary Jen Psaki gaggled for about 20 minutes toward the end of the flight. You should have heard the audio feed.

No big news. Psaki offered a brief readout of the meeting on cyber that POTUS held before this morning's flight. She provided an overview of POTUS comments to come later this afternoon and touched on the administration's efforts to increase vaccinations. On violence, she said the administration is in touch with the mayor of Chicago about the shootings overnight and offered condolences for the families.

Your pooler will provide quotes soon. Please check against transcript as usual.

More to come.


POTUS deplaned at 11:46 am central time and was greeted by Chicago mayor lightfoot and the Cook County board president Toni Preckwinkle.

They talked briefly on the tarmac before POTUS walked to Marine One.

Pool is boarding the ospreys for the flight to Crystal Lake. 


POTUS arrived at McHenry County College at about 12:10 pm central time. Pool was very far away in a bus when Marine One touched down. We are now holding.

Jen Psaki gaggled for about 20 minutes.

Here are highlights: (as always, check against transcript.)




Pool was brought into the manufacturing lab at McHenry Community College. There are big pieces of equipment including several drill presses and other pieces of industrial equipment. The White House hung an American flag and two BUILD BACK BETTER signs on the wall behind POTUS, who met with workers and employees.

According to school officials: The lab teaches both manual machining and computer controlled machining, including a turning center and a milling center. The equipment makes things out of metal, including medical supplies and forged metal for NASA, DOD and others.

One student said she will graduate with a manufacturing management degree. The tour guide today is the President of McHenry County College, Dr. Clint Gabbard, who introduced the students and talked a bit about the school.

POTUS arrived at 1:10 pm. He received a description of the lab, and was told the school is building a new, 50,000 square foot lab for the same purpose.

POTUS notes that his wife is a community college professor. He said: "It's amazing what a degree can do it just makes a gigantic difference, opens doors."

Mr. Gabbard told POTUS that the college made the tires for the Mars rover.

Then the pool was led out as POTUS continued talking to the other students in the lab.

From the WH, those meeting with POTUS are:

Joining the President at tour stop 1, the Manufacturing Lab:


Previously, POTUS met with others, but the pool was not with him at the time. From the WH:

Upon arrival at McHenry Community College, the President is greeting with:


Participating in a photo line with the President:




POTUS next came into a child learning center, a room with toddlers/pre-school aged children, on the floor with blocks, dolls, potato heads and other toys.

POTUS greeted some of the adults and the children.

"So good to see you guys," he said.

POTUS was told that the center is for college students who are parents, to allow them to do their studies, and also serves as a place for student teachers to work and study.

"I personally was a single parent for five years.

I could not afford child care. But I had a family to help.

People can't make it by themselves. This is really important"

Pointing to Lauren Underwood, POTUS said: "This woman here, hang on to her."

Speaking to the parents in the room, POTUS said: "You're about to get a big check.

I was able to get passed a child care tax credit.

It's time that you guys get a tax break."

As always, check against transcript.

Asked about Mitch McConnell, POTUS said that he " loves our program… 1.9 trill program

Look it up man, he's bragging about it in Kentucky. "

From the WH:

Joining the President at tour stop 2, the Children's Learning Center




Your pooler did not notice earlier a group of maybe 100 people holding TRUMP signs on a grassy area some distance from the auditorium that POTUS is set to speak in. In addition to the TRUMP signs, one big sign said "Make America Proud Again." There was some hooting and yelling that your pooler could not make out. 


[
]


POTUS began speaking at 1:46 pm central time. The remarks are open press and streamed at Whitehouse.gov/live. He was introduced by Edith Sanchez, a student at McHenry County Community College.

POTUS is speaking in Lucent Auditorium, a gymnasium at the college. There are BUILD BACK BETTER signs behind him, along with American and Illinois flags. There are about 200 people in the audience, including students, teachers, family members and children sitting in folding chairs.


?POTUS speech ended at about 2:15. Pool has loaded into a bus for the short ride back to the ospreys.


From the WH:

Statement from Press Secretary Jen Psaki:

During a greet with Mayor Lightfoot on the airport tarmac, President Biden expressed his personal support for the two ATF officials and the Chicago police officer who were shot earlier today. He reiterated his commitment to working with the Mayor and leaders in Chicago in the fight against gun violence and conveyed that the Department of Justice would soon be in touch about the strike force announced just a few weeks ago that will be working with cities like Chicago. 


Marine One landed at 2:45 pm central time at the Chicago airport and POTUS quickly boarded AF1 for the flight back to DC. We are running almost an hour ahead of schedule.

We are rolling at 3:00 pm, central time.

Next stop: DC. 


AF1 landed at JBA at 5:25 pm eastern time after a quiet flight from Chicago. There were no visitors to the press cabin during the flight and POTUS did not talk to the press after deplaning.

POTUS boarded Marine One at 5:33 and is headed back to the White House. Handing off to in-town pool now.

WH passes along:

From Press Secretary Jen Psaki:

"Tomorrow morning, President Biden will meet with his national security team to receive a periodic update on the progress of our military drawdown from Afghanistan. Early tomorrow afternoon, the President will make comments on our continued drawdown efforts and ongoing security and humanitarian assistance to the ANDSF and the Afghan people."

Thanks to my co-pooler Tina Sfondeles of Politico for her help today on her maiden AF1 trip.

Stay cool and safe. 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




?Good evening! We are gathering now for POTUS arrival on the South Lawn.


POTUS stepped off Marine One at 5:48 p.m. and briefly stopped to talk to press. Asked if Russia was responsible for the attack on RNC, and said he was briefed this morning and will know more tomorrow. Asked if he was worried about Kabul falling to the Taliban and he said he will talk about Afghanistan withdrawal tomorrow.

Audio obviously hard to hear over helicopters but will circulate once we head back. 


We have a lid. Fuller quotes from remarks, which clocked in at roughly 40 seconds.

On RNC attack:

"The FBI is working with the RNC to determine the facts. … I will know what I am going to do tomorrow"

Are you worried about Kabul falling?

"I'll speak to that tomorrow"

Have a good night! 