The economy is booming under President Biden's leadership. The economy has gained more than three million jobs since the President took office—the most jobs created in the first five months of any presidency in modern history. Today, the President is building on this economic momentum by signing an Executive Order to promote competition in the American economy, which will lower prices for families, increase wages for workers, and promote innovation and even faster economic growth.

For decades, corporate consolidation has been accelerating. In 
 of U.S. industries, a smaller number of large companies now control more of the business than they did twenty years ago. This is true across healthcare, financial services, agriculture and more.

That lack of competition drives up prices for consumers. As fewer large players have controlled more of the market, mark-ups (charges over cost) 
. Families are paying higher prices for necessities—things like prescription drugs, hearing aids, and internet service.

Barriers to competition are also driving down wages for workers. When there are only a few employers in town, workers have less opportunity to bargain for a higher wage and to demand dignity and respect in the workplace. In fact, research shows that industry consolidation is decreasing advertised wages by 
. 
 of Americans—including those working in construction and retail—are required to sign non-compete agreements as a condition of getting a job, which makes it harder for them to switch to better-paying options.
 In total, higher prices and lower wages caused by lack of competition are now estimated to cost the median American household 
.

Inadequate competition holds back economic growth and innovation. The rate of 
 has fallen by almost 50% since the 1970s as large businesses make it harder for Americans with good ideas to break into markets. There are 
 for existing small and independent businesses to access markets and earn a fair return. Economists find that as competition declines, 
 slows, 
, and 
, 
, and 
 widen.

When past presidents faced similar threats from growing corporate power, they took bold action. In the early 1900s, Teddy Roosevelt's Administration broke up the trusts controlling the economy—Standard Oil, J.P. Morgan's railroads, and others—giving the little guy a fighting chance. In the late 1930s, FDR's Administration supercharged antitrust enforcement, increasing more than eightfold the number of cases brought in just two years—enforcement actions that saved consumers 
 in today's dollars and helped unleash decades of sustained, inclusive economic growth.

Today President Biden is taking decisive action to reduce the trend of corporate consolidation, increase competition, and deliver concrete benefits to America's consumers, workers, farmers, and small businesses. 
The Order
Once implemented, these initiatives will result in concrete improvements to people's lives.

Among other things, they will:

 
The Order:

 A more detailed summary of the key actions in the Order is provided below:

 Competition in labor markets empowers workers to demand higher wages and greater dignity and respect in the workplace. One way companies stifle competition is with non-compete clauses. Roughly 
 of private-sector businesses require at least some employees to enter non-compete agreements, affecting some 
 workers.

Overly burdensome occupational licensing requirements that impede worker mobility and suppress wages also restrict competition. Today, almost 
% of jobs in the United States require a license, up from less than 5% in the 1950s. 
 of occupations that require licensing in at least one state are treated consistently across all 50 states. That locks some people out of jobs, and it makes it harder for people to move between states—particularly burdening military spouses, 
 of whom work in a field requiring a license and are subject to military-directed moves every few years.

Workers may also be harmed by existing 
 provided by the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission to Human Resource personnel that 
 third parties to make wage data available to employers—and not to workers—in certain circumstances without triggering antitrust scrutiny. This may be used to collaborate to suppress wages and benefits.



 These actions complement the President's call for Congress to pass the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act to ensure workers have a free and fair choice to join a union and to collectively bargain. Unions are critical to empowering workers to bargain with their employers for better jobs and to creating an economy that works for everyone.

 The proposed Order tackles four areas where lack of competition in healthcare increases prices and reduces access to quality care.

 Americans pay more than 
as much for the same prescription drugs as peer countries, and 
. Price increases continue to 
. As a result, nearly one in four Americans report difficulties paying for medication, and nearly one in three Americans 
 not taking their medications as prescribed.

These high prices are in part the result of lack of competition among drug manufacturers. The largest pharmaceutical companies are able to wield their market power to reap average annual profits of 
 as compared to average annual profits of 4-9% for the largest non-drug companies.

One strategy that drug manufacturers have used to avoid competing is "pay for delay" agreements, in which brand-name drug manufacturers pay generic manufacturers to stay out of the market. That has raised drug prices 
, and 
 that "pay for delay" and similar deals between generic and brand name manufacturers reduce innovation—reducing new drug trials and R&D expenditures.



 
 Hearing aids are so expensive that only 
 of the approximately 
with hearing loss use them. On average, they cost more than 
per pair, and those costs are often not covered by health insurance. A major driver of the expense is that consumers must get them from a doctor or a specialist, even though 
 that medical evaluation is not necessary. Rather, this requirement serves only as red tape and a barrier to more companies selling hearing aids. The four largest hearing aid manufacturers now control 
 of the market. 
 In 2017, Congress passed a bipartisan proposal to allow hearing aids to be sold over the counter. However, the Trump Administration Food and Drug Administration failed to issue the necessary rules that would actually allow hearing aids to be sold over the counter, leaving millions of Americans without low-cost options.
 


 
 Hospital consolidation has left many areas, 
, without good options for convenient and affordable healthcare service. Thanks to unchecked mergers, the ten largest healthcare systems now control a 
 of the market. Since 2010, 
 rural hospitals have shuttered, including a high of 19 last year, in the middle of a healthcare crisis. Research shows that hospitals in consolidated markets charge 
 than hospitals in markets with several competitors.
 


 
 Consolidation in the health insurance industry has meant that many consumers have 
 when it comes to selecting insurers. And even when there is some choice, comparison shopping is hard because plans offered on the exchanges are complicated—with different services covered or different deductibles.
 


 In the transportation sector, multiple industries are now dominated by large corporations—air travel, rail, and shipping.

The top four commercial airlines control nearly 
 of the domestic market. Reduced competition contributes to increasing fees like baggage and cancellation fees. These fees are often 
, demonstrating a lack of meaningful competitive pressure, and are 
 from consumers at the point of purchase. The top ten airlines collected 
 in ancillary fees in 2018, up from just $1.2 billion in 2007. Inadequate competition also reduces incentives to provide good service. For example, the Department of Transportation (DOT) estimates that airlines were late delivering 
 2.3 million checked bags in 2019.



 
 In 1980, there were 
, compared to just seven today, and four major rail companies now dominate their respective geographic regions. Freight railroads that own the tracks can privilege their own freight traffic—making it harder for passenger trains to have on-time service—and can overcharge other companies' freight cars.



 
 In maritime shipping, the global marketplace has rapidly consolidated. In 2000, the largest 10 shipping companies controlled 
 of the market. Today, it is more than 80%, leaving domestic manufacturers who need to export goods at these large foreign companies' mercy. This has let powerful container shippers charge exporters exorbitant fees for time their freight was sitting waiting to be loaded or unloaded. These fees, called "detention and demurrage charges," can add up to 
 of dollars.



 Over the past few decades, key agricultural markets have become more concentrated and less competitive. The markets for seeds, equipment, feed, and fertilizer are now dominated by just a few large companies, meaning family farmers and ranchers now have to pay more for these 
. For example, just 
 control most of the world's seeds, and corn seed prices have gone up as much as 
% annually.

Consolidation also limits farmers' and ranchers' options for selling their products. That means they get 
 when they sell their produce and meat—even as 
 at the grocery store. For example, four large meat-packing companies dominate over 
% of the beef market and, over the last five years, farmers' share of the price of beef has dropped by more than a 
—from 51.5% to 37.3%—while the price of beef has risen.

Overall, farmers' and ranchers' share of each dollar spent on food has been 
ing for decades. In short, family farmers and ranchers are getting less, consumers are paying more, and the big conglomerates in the middle are taking the difference.

Meanwhile, the law designed to combat these abuses—the Packers and Stockyards Act—was systematically weakened by the Trump Administration Department of Agriculture (USDA).

American farmers and ranchers are also getting squeezed by foreign corporations importing meat from overseas with labels that mislead customers about its origin. Under current labeling rules, meat can be labeled "Product of USA" if it is only processed here—including when meat is raised overseas and then merely processed into cuts of meat here. For example, 
 is actually imported. That makes it hard or impossible for consumers to know where their food comes from and to choose to support American farmers and ranchers.

Corporate consolidation even affects farmers' ability to repair their own equipment or to use independent repair shops. Powerful equipment manufacturers—such as tractor manufacturers—use proprietary repair tools, software, and diagnostics to prevent third-parties from performing repairs. For example, when certain tractors detect a failure, they cease to operate until a dealer unlocks them. That forcers farmers to pay dealer rates for repairs that they could have made themselves, or that an independent repair shop could have done more cheaply.



 The Order tackles four issues that limit competition, raise prices, and reduce choices for internet service.

More than
 U.S. residents live in an area with only one or two reliable high-speed internet providers, leading to prices as much 
 in these markets than in markets with more options. A related problem is landlords and internet service providers entering 
 that leave tenants with only one option. This impacts low-income and marginalized neighborhoods, because landlord-ISP arrangements can effectively block out broadband infrastructure expansion by new providers.



 
: Even where consumers have options, comparison shopping is hard. According to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), actual prices paid for broadband services can be 
% higher than advertised. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the FCC began 
 a "Broadband Nutrition Label"—a simple label that provides basic information about the internet service offered so people can compare options. The Trump Administration FCC abandoned those plans.
 


 
 If a consumer does find a better internet service deal, they may be unable to actually switch because of high early termination fees—on average nearly 
—charged by internet providers.
 


 
 Big providers can use their power to discriminatorily block or slow down online services. The Obama-Biden Administration's FCC adopted "Net Neutrality" rules that required these companies to treat all internet services equally, but this was 
 in 2017.



 
 The Order tackles three areas in which dominant tech firms are undermining competition and reducing innovation:

 Over the past ten years, the largest tech platforms have acquired hundreds of companies—including alleged "
" meant to shut down a potential competitive threat. Too often, federal agencies have not blocked, conditioned, or, in some cases, meaningfully examined these acquisitions.
 


 
Many of the large platforms' business models have depended on the accumulation of extraordinarily amounts of sensitive personal information and related data.
 


 
The large platforms' power gives them unfair opportunities to get a leg up on the small businesses that rely on them to reach customers. For example, companies that run 
 can see how small businesses' products sell and then use the data to launch their own competing products. Because they run the platform, they can also display their own copycat products more prominently than the small businesses' products.
 


 
 Tech and other companies impose restrictions on self and third-party repairs, making repairs 
, such as by 
 the distribution of parts, diagnostics, and repair tools.



 
 Over the past two decades, the United States has lost 70% of the banks it once had, with around 
 bank closures. Communities of color are disproportionately affected, with 
 of all rural closures in majority-minority census tracts. Many of these closures are the 
 of mergers and acquisitions. Though subject to federal review, federal agencies have not formally denied a bank merger application in more than 
.
 Excessive consolidation raises costs for consumers, restricts credit for small businesses, and harms low-income communities. Branch closures can reduce the amount of small business lending by about 
 and leads to 
. Even where a customer has multiple options, it is hard to switch banks partly because customers cannot easily take their financial transaction history data to a new bank. That increases the 
 of the new bank extending you credit.


