Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I am doing double duty today and filing the in-town departure pool report, as well as today's out of town reports, because President Biden is motorcding to JBA ahead of his trip to Michigan.
The South Lawn is being prepared for Fourth of July, so the president is not taking Marine One to the airport this sunny, summer Saturday.
President Biden left the White House at 10:36 am in the motorcade. Pool did not see him exit the building, but it did spot the Beast leaving from the North Portico entrance. We are en route to JBA, lights flashing, on the highway.
The route out of DC took the motorcade past the Washington Monument and the Tidal Basin, where people walking and riding bikes stopped their activity to take photos of the president.
*The president was due to depart JBA at 10:35 EDT per the daily guidance but it is later than that already.*
Another note about the trip today: the president is taking the small plane, which means getting a signal will be extra challenging for press once we are on board.
At 10:57 am the motorcade turned into JBA and rolled straight onto the tarmac.
Pool had to sprint to the plane to catch the president boarding the aircraft.
He exited the Beast at 10:59 am and saluted at the bottom of the plane, walked up the stairs, saluted again at the top and waved in the direction of Press. He did not stop to chat.
Here is some background from the White House on the trip:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Colonel William "Chris" McDonald.
Traveling with the President to Michigan:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Russell Travers, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 July 3, 2021
 Background for the President's Visit to Michigan
Michigan received a 
 grade on its Infrastructure Report Card. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will make a historic investment in our nation's infrastructure.
Since President Biden took office, the number of COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations and deaths in Michigan have dropped dramatically.
AF1 was wheels up at 11:09 am from JBA and wheels down at 12:34pm in Michigan.
No visitors to the press cabin during the flight.
Officials and press are on the tarmac awaiting President Biden.
*Pooler misnumbered an earlier report. There was no travel pool report #1.
Moments aftert the last pool report the president emerged from AF1. He saluted at the top, then threw up both his hands in the air in a gesture of hello to officials on the tarmac.
Officials clapped, including Michigan Gov. Whitmer, who is wearing jeans today. (The president is in a medium blue jacket and dark pants, by the way.)
Pool could not hear pleasantries on the tarmac but saw POTUS holding hands with Whitmer at one point. It wasn't clear who intiated the contact. Please check video. Biden later put his hand on the back of Mayor Carruthers, and at one point waved at the press and mouthed a hello. He was having an extended chat with the mayor after the other officials peeled off. They were walking to M1 together, slowly when pool split off to the Ospreys.
Pool did not see POTUS board M1 and is now wheels up in its aircraft at 12:58 pm.
From the WH:
Upon arrival at Cherry Capital Airport, the President will be greeted by:
Governor Gretchen Whitmer
Senator Debbie Stabenow
Senator Gary Peters
Mayor Jim Carruthers, Traverse City
The president landed at the Antrim County Airport in M1 at roughly 1:10 pm. Pool landed shortly before him on an Osprey and was rushed to a bus, where poolers could view M1 from the window, but did not see the president leave the helo. Here in Michigan, a Black SUV awaited him, and at 1:17 the motorcade is leaving the airport.
Here's where he is in the daily guidance:
An important update: the pool has had bad cell and WiFi service since it arrived at Antrim. Apologies if pool reports are trickling in slowly or in batches.
The pool arrived in the motorcade at King Orchards in Central Lake (per the WH) at 1:38 pm. It did not see the president.
Along the route, local residents lined up in fields and yards, waving at the president and taking photos.
As the motorcade rolled through Central Lake, festively-dressed onlookers waved and cheered. A few held signs, including a Michigan for Biden sign and a Biden-Harris sign.
The orchard tour is expected to be fast paced. Pool will send reports as quickly as it can. Pool is currently holding among cherry trees.
More background from the WH:
The President will tour King Orchards, a fruit farm in Central Lake, Michigan, with Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Senator Debbie Stabenow, and Senator Gary Peters.
Brothers John and Jim King, along with their wives Betsy and Rose and their children, have been growing fruit in Northern Michigan for more than 30 years.
Their orchards are located on the northern edge of Michigan's famed cherry growing region, atop glacier-formed ridges, and rolling hills near Torch Lake and Lake Michigan's Grand Traverse Bay.
The family actively grows over 140 acres of Montmorency tart cherries, in addition to Balaton cherries, black sweet cherries, apples, peaches, pears, apricots, plums, and nectarines.
Upon arrival at King Orchards, the President will be greeted by:
John King, Founder and Co-Owner of King Orchards
Jim King, Co-Owner and Manager of Outside Operations, King Orchards
Jack King, Vice President of Crop Protection, King Orchards
Juliette King McAvoy, Vice President of Sales and Marketing, King Orchards
Mark Schiller, Vice President of Orchard Operations, King Orchards
Michael King, Professional Skier and son of John F. King
The president is on a tour of King Orchard currently, several points along the way the pool was able to observe.
At 1:56 pm, pool first caught sight of the president at the orchard, walking among the cherry trees with officials and Juliette King McAvoy, who was giving them their tour. They stood at a distance from the pool, but it was able to catch bits and parts of the conversation and saw the president eat a cherry off a tree at that stop on the tour.
POTUS asked King McAvoy about the two types of cherry trees in the orchard. "What's the difference?" he said.
King McAvoy told him that the trees would normally be "laden with fruit" but some of the branches came down. "It's been a rough year," she said. She said they don't really know how to handle the volatile weather.
At 2pm pool, repositioned to see the president walk down a hill through the orchard and onto a road with King McAvoy and the officials. They reemerged a few minutes later at 2:03 pm.
King McAvoy was talking to him about "the clean energy infrastructure" and said she was excited about it. She told POTUS she saw him test drive the Ford F-150, saying, "I can't wait, I can't wait to get one." Pool was pulled as he responded and did not hear his answer.
It repositioned again further down the road, to see the president approach a tree with red cherries that four workers were at, two on ladders in the tree, and two standing on the ground.
He greeted the four workers, whose names pool couldn't hear well but asked for (see bottom of this report.)
"Good to see you," he said, giving one of the workers a hug.
King said they had been working at the farm for 35 years after arriving from Guatemala. She said they now have grandchildren here and children who have gone to college. "What they do for the orchard is invaluable," she said. She said they are skilled laborers.
She said that citizenship offers them protection and security.
POTUS could be heard telling her, We're a "nation of immigrants, every one of us." He picked a cherry out of one of the baskets and ate it as pool moved along down the road.
Behind pool, the president could be seen walking and talking with King McAvoy. He took his jacket off along the way, and held it over one shoulder. The president and his Michigan hosts then began to work a lengthy rope line behind which attendees held various signs, including one that had a water droplet on it and said "WATER LIFE" and another that said, "Thank you Gov. Whitmer."
They cheered as the press and advance approached ahead of the president and cheered again later as the president bent down to take a photo with some of them.
POTUS was far out of earshot of the pool for most of the rope line.chatter and approached again at roughly 2:30 pm.
A note on the cherries: pool spotted red cherries and green cherries in the orchard. Pooler is no cherry connoisseur and is endeavoring to find out what kind of cherries are on each tree. As soon as we get better service, I'll share photos from the orchard.
Also, Whitmer gaggled with press briefly and told us at another point that her sweater has the "state motto" on it in Latin. She said she just met a teacher in the crowd who understood what it said.
The president is making slow progress on the ropeline. More to come from the tour and Whitmer gaggle on infrastructure and COVID vaccinations.
Here are the worker names:
The cherry pickers the President met with are two married couples from Guatemala who arrived in the United States as teenagers and have been working at King Orchards for 35 years:
Pedro Francisco & Juana Miguel
Jesus Sebastian & Maria Pascual
Here are highlights from the Whitmer gaggle:
Asked if she spoke with the president about infrastructure projects specifically for Michigan: "I'm the fix the damn roads governor, so I talk infrastructure with everybody, including the president. We haven't had a conversation about specific projects, but certainly with the incredible flooding that we suffered a week and a half ago, infrastructure is on everyone's mind. It's always on mine, but it's on everyone's mind."
She said the state saw "under-invested infrastructure collide with climate change" and the freeways were under water.
"So this is an important moment. And that's why this infrastructure package is so important. That's also why I got the president rocky road fudge from Mackinac Island for his trip here."
What could/should the federal government be doing in her view to boost vaccination rates in Michigan: "We've actually come a long way," she said, bringing up the MI Shot to Win sweepstakes, adding, "whenever Ohio does something, we want to figure out how to do it bigger and better."
"We got creative and are using the rescue plan dollars to help encourage more people to get vaccinated....We're closing in on 63% now, which is pretty good considering I don't have a legislature that's working hard to help me get this done."
Why hasn't MI gotten to the 70% rate the president said he wants to see by July 4:
"I think what we've seen all across the country...It's slowing down. We're still increasing, and this announcement on the MI Shot to Win I think is going to help us get closer to that 70% but it's important that we are in communities meeting people where they are."
Asked about rebates and if they are enough: She said she thinks there is "more to come" and there is more "investment that will have to happen to support electric vehicles" and she is working with fellow governors on this.
"But we've got a lot more to do in this space."
She said she has had an "ongoing" conversation with Biden "about a lot of this, and probably talk a little bit more today about it."
She was asked about treaty rights and hunting and fishing and whether she wants the federal government involved. "I'm not going to comment on the pending litigation. But my position is very well known."
She went on to talk about protecting the Great Lakes and the need to "protect them" and "no one's standing in my way on that front."
======
More on President Biden:
At 2:45 pm the press arrived at the orchard's market, ahead of the president who was still at the ropeline when it was ushered up the hill.
The president was still out of view at 3:08 PM but we're told we should expect him shortly.
Per copooler, the president told a woman on the ropeline earlier, "God love you."
Reporters attempted multiple times to engage the president in questions. While he did not respond, there's still time today.
President Biden at 3:26pm entered the orchard market.
"I'm going to look at the pies," the president said.
"I'd like a cherry pie but I also want an apple pie," he said contemplating
He asked what kind they like -- which was cherry -- and asked for two more pies: a cherry crumb and a cherry raspberry.
He was given a tour of the market
"You all want a cherry soda?" he asked his advance team. He asked how many. One member said to get three. The president upped that to half a dozen.
The president was shown canned cherries and canned jam.
"I think you're loaded up," the woman showing him around said at the end.
Pooler will check to see which pies the president ended up buying because later he said he was getting a blueberry pie
"They'll have to suffer through blueberry pie. Let's get a blueberry pie," he said checking out.
The president took out his wallet and grabbed a credit card. He took off his aviators to pay.
A box was recommended to him.
Out of earshot of pool as he was paying, he was asked several questions by other members of the pool in another area that were hard to hear and pool on the other end is trying to get audio of.
Asked on the end where print was about Surfside and the rest of the tower being demolished and whether he has a comment Biden said:
"I don't. I have not been briefed by FEMA on whether or not that is" --- why they "reached that decision."
The president left the market at about 3:32 pm and pool rushed to the bus. The motorcade appears to be headed back to the local airport currently. More to come.
The motorcade arrived back at the local airport at roughly 4:04 pm. Pool had to immediately load into the Ospreys and did not see President Biden get in M1.
Pool Osprey was wheels up at 4:11 pm.
Here is more from the Biden gaggle. There were two other questions asked that pool is still working to get down. One was about why he came to Michigan. He said it was for the cherry pies.
The first questions were about the hack and who's responsible. As he way paying, President Biden said we're "not sure it's the Russians" and said he "got a brief as I was on the plane and that's why I was late" getting off the plane.
Asked who it might be, in between paying, he pulled a note card out of his jacket and told pool he would tell them what he was told. Those remarks were hard to hear but he said,. "And I'll know better tomorrow."
He also reiterated "we're not certain" and said "we're not sure."
Please as always check against video and transcript for this gaggle because poolers, even those close by, were struggling to hear the remarks.
At 4:19 pm pool Osprey was wheels down at the airport in Traverse City where AF1 is parked. Photographers did see POTUS board M1 a bit ago and showed print pooler a picture of him saluting at the steps.
Here is more of what POTUS said in the Q and A per co-pooler Eli Stokols of the LA Times:
On the ransomware attack, he said he got a brief on the plane, which is why he was late getting off. He pulled a notecard out of his jacket pocket and said he's directed the "full resources of the federal government" to investigate and that he told Putin (in Geneva) that if his government is deemed to be responsible for the more stuff like this the US will respond. "The initial thinking was it was not the Russian government, but we're not sure yet," he said.
On the Olympic sprinters marijuana ban: "The rules are the rules," he said, adding, "I was really proud of the way she responded."
At the airport, pool boarded vans -- not AF1 -- and at 4:32 pm the motorcade was on the move again.
It is not clear where we are going, but it appears to be an OTR stop and pooler will send details when we get them.
Back at the market, Bloomberg's Jennifer Jacob's got a good photo of the pies the president purchased.
The stack shows: cherry crumb, apple, cherry raspberry and cherry.
POTUS also did buy that blueberry pie he talked about, according to a photographer.
Also passing along a tweet on the gaggle with Biden from a part print poolers did not hear:
At 4:54 pm, the motorcade arrived at Moomers Homemade Ice Cream in Traverse City for an OTR stop.
Along the way the motorcade passed a fair, where people were lined up waiting and taking photos.
Here's some color from the ice cream shop. The motorcade left at 5:11 pm.
"Come on senators," President Biden said after entering. "How are you?" he asked an employee. The person responded, "Doing well, how are you?"
"I'm okay," he said. "Do you know what you'd like?" he asked senators.
The president was told that he is in the "cherry capital of the world."
He replied, "I know, but I'm a chocolate chip guy."
He asked for double dip waffle cone with vanilla chocolate chip ice cream. But he could be seen later with a regular waffle cone that had two scoops of vanilla ice cream in it with chocolate chips on top.
He was told that their most popular was cherries jubilee.
The total of his order was $14.58. He paid with a $20 and gave the change as a tip.
"The senators told me, this is the best place in the world," POTUS said in between bites.
He spent his time there talking to patrons, including a family, as he ate his ice cream. He stopped by tables and spoke to some children our of earshot of the print pooler.
"Boy is this good. Yummy, yummy, yummy," Sen. Stabenow said. She said she got cherry jubilee ice cream.
She told pool she recommended Biden come to Moomers.
"I know he loves ice cream," she said, adding that if you come to Traverse City, you have to come to Moomers.
She said they talked about infrastructure during the trip and the weather. Stabenow said they spoke about how important cherry growers and all their growers are in Michigan. They also spoke about "traditional infrastructure" and its importance. She defined traditional infrastructure as "roads, bridges, water, sewer systems" and high-speed Internet. "We were out in an area that doesn't have high-speed internet."
She said that high-apeed internet is a critical part of infrastructure, and the president completely agrees. "So we're going to be working very hard to get a very robust infrastructure" bill.
She was also asked if it has crossover appeal, infrastructure, to Republicans in an area like this, but print pooler couldn't hear most of her answer.
Pool was prepositioed inside the ice cream shop behind the counter as Biden ordered and paid. Both of Michigan's senators were with him.
While pool did not know where it was headed a Moomers employee said they heard "pretty strong rumors" he would be coming there.
The motorcade arrived back at the Traverse City airport at 5:30 pm. The president exited the Beast several minutes later.
On the tarmac, POTUS spoke to a volunteer driver. At the top of the steps of the plane Biden gave a salute, a wave, a salute and another wave.
AF1 will be wheels up imminently. Next stop: Delaware.
AF1 was wheels down in Delaware at 7:10 pm.
No special guests to the back of the plane during the flight, but the White House did offer that the president left a $20 tip in addition to the previously mentioned change when he was at Moomers. The press pool was also treated to pie on the plane from the orchard market in Michigan. The options offered to reporters were cherry or blueberry.
The White House sends along the following:
Upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard, the President will be greeted by Colonel Charles Hill.
At 7:18 pm the president deplaned AF1. He saluted at the bottom of the stairs. POTUS also waved in the direction of press after shaking his greeters hand before getting into a Black SUV.
The motorcade is currently on the move from the Delaware Air National Guard Base.
The pool peeled away after dropping the president off at his personal residence. A lid was called at 7:34 pm.
Here's a link to the Dropbox folder where today's pictures are:
Have a good evening, everyone.