. Mr. President, let me know if I can ask you a question.
 Sure. [
]
Right now, sir?
 Yes.
With the most recent hack by the Russians, would you say that this means that——
 We're not sure it's the Russians.
Okay, with this most—okay——
 I still haven't—I got a brief on the—as I was on the plane, that's why I was late getting off the plane. I got a brief, and——
[
]
Right here.
All right.
Would you like your receipt?
Do you know who it might be, sir?
 I'll be in better shape to talk to you about it—hang on a second.
[
.]
I'll tell you what they sent me, okay? That—the idea—first of all, we're not sure who it is for certain, number one. And what I did, I directed the full resources of the Government to assist in a response if we determine—what else do you need?
Nothing. You're all set.
Okay. And the fact is that I directed the intelligence community to give me a deep dive on what's happened, and I'll know better tomorrow. And if it is, either with the knowledge of and/or a consequence of Russia, then I told Putin we will respond. And—but——
You did tell him already, sir?
 No. No. I haven't called.
 Oh.
 Because we're not certain. And the initial thinking was it was not the Russian Government, but we're not sure yet. So——
Mr. President, do you think Sha'Carri—do you think Sha'Carri Richardson's ban—her temporary ban for marijuana, do you think that's fair, sir?
Could you tell us why you're in Michigan today? What is it about Michigan, coming on the eve of Independence Day, what brought you here?
 Cherry pie.
Sir, do you think the ban is fair? Do you think her ban is fair for marijuana?
 Look, it's the—the rules are the rules, and everybody knows what the rules were going in. Whether they should remain that—that should remain the rule is a different issue, but the rules are the rules. And I was really proud of her, the way she responded.
And so—okay, thank you, guys.
Mr. President, one on Surfside. Do you have a comment on officials' announcement today that they will have to demolish the remaining parts of the tower?
 No, I don't. I have not been briefed by FEMA on whether or not that is wise that they've reached that decision.