Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where it is very hot.
I'll be your in-town pool reporter today. It's my first-ever time doing pool duty so email me with any questions.
The White House says there are no schedule changes so far. The big event on POTUS schedule is his speech on voting rights in Philadelphia, set for 2:50 pm EST.
The White House wanted to pass along that singer Olivia Rodrigo will be at the White House tomorrow. Here are the details.
From a WH official:
Marine One Departed the White House South Lawn at 1:10.
POTUS didn't take questions but smiled and waved as he walked towards Marine One.
Handing off to out-of-town pooler. I'll rejoin you when POTUS returns this evening.
Per White House, traveling with POTUS to Philadelphia are:
Now handing off to out-of-town pooler. See you all later this evening.
The Air Force One press gaggle has started. It is available on White House Live and it is being piped in the briefing room.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 5:27.
POTUS didn't take any questions as he walked back into the White House.
The White House has called a lid at 5:35. Have a great night everyone!
It was a pleasure being your pooler today. It was a fun first time as pooler.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
?Greetings from JBA?. I'll be your print pooler for the president's trip to Philadelphia.
The White House sends along this background memo ahead of the president's remarks.
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 July 13, 2021
 Background for the President's Visit to Pennsylvania
???Marine One touched down at JBA at 1:18 pm.
POTUS immediately boarded AF1. He waved to the pool but did not stop to take questions.
We are rolling shortly for Philadelphia.
Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle during the flight. The gaggle will be live streamed.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Anita Dunn, Senior Advisor to the President
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Dana Remus, Assistant to the President & White House Counsel
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Anne Neuberger, Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber & Emerging Technology
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
AF1 touched down in Philadelphia at 1:54 pm. We are waiting for POTUS to deplane.
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled during the flight.
Some highlights:
VP Harris will meet with Texas Democrats this week. No date or other details.
Unclear if Biden will meet with the Texas Dems. But he considers the Texas legislation an attack on democracy and believes if passed it would make it harder to vote.
On whether Texas Dems did the right thing by leaving the state: "He applauds their courage."
POTUS walked down the steps of the plane at 2:04 pm. He shook hands with the greeters and talked with them briefly. (Names are below). The pool could not hear the conversation.
We are rolling at 2:08 pm toward the National Constitution Center.?
From the White House:
Upon arrival at Philadelphia International Airport, the President will be greeted by:
Governor Tom Wolf
Mayor Jim Kenney, City of Philadelphia
Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
Congressman Dwight Evans (PA-03)
Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
Former Congressman Bob Brady, Chairman, Philadelphia Democratic Party
Motorcade arrived at the National Constitution Center at 2:22 p.m. after an uneventful ride through Philadelphia. Bystanders stood along the sidewalk and took cell phone photos as the motorcade passed.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the building.
We are awaiting the start of POTUS' remarks, which will be live streamed. Your pooler will provide color from the event.
POTUS took the stage at 2:45 p.m. to a standing ovation and loud cheers from the crowd. He is now speaking.
The stage is set up in what appears to be the atrium of the National Constitution Center. Roughly 200 guests are on hand for the remarks. Most are seated on the floor in front of and to the side of the stage. Other guests are standing on a stairwell leading to a mezzanine area.
Spotted in the crowd: the Rev. Al Sharpton, Rep. Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania, Cedric Richmond and the president's sister, Valerie Biden Owens.
The White House sends along these details about the event. Note the crowd estimate is 300, not 200 as mentioned in previous pool report.
There are approximately 300 audience members at the President's remarks on the critical need to protect every citizen's right to vote and to have their vote counted, and on the urgent need for Congress to act. The audience is made up of local elected officials, national and local civil rights leaders, voting rights advocates, labor leaders and other. Notable attendees include:
• Governor Tom Wolf
• Attorney General Josh Shapiro
• Mayor of Philadelphia Jim Kenney
• Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)
• Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-02)
• Congressman Dwight Evans (PA-03)
• Congresswoman Madeleine Dean (PA-04)
• Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)
• Acting Secretary of the Commonwealth Veronica Degraffenreid
• Pennsylvania Senator Vincent J. Hughes, Appropriations Committee Democratic Chairman
• Pennsylvania House Democratic Leader Joanna McClinton
• Pennsylvania Representative Malcolm Kenyatta
• Commissioner Omar Sabir, City Commission of Philadelphia
• Commissioner Al Schmidt, City Commission of Philadelphia
• Reverend Al Sharpton
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 3:11 pm and is now shaking hands and chatting with members of the crowd. Pool cannot hear the conversation.
?POTUS worked the rope line for roughly 38 minutes after his remarks and was escorted out of the room at 3:53 p.m.
In response to reporters' shouted questions about the filibuster, he said, "I'm not filibustering now."
Motorcade is awaiting departure for the airport.
Motorcade is rolling toward the airport at 4:06 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the airport at 4:19 pm.
POTUS immediately boarded the plane.
We are wheels up shortly for JBA.
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 4:59 pm.
?Karine Jean-Pierre and Cedric Richmond came back to the press cab during the return flight. Richmond spoke off the record for several minutes.
We are waiting to deplane.
From the White House:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
POTUS walked down the steps of the plane at 5:10 pm and headed to Marine One. The chopper was wheels up at 5:16 pm.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
Special thanks to co-pooler Matt Viser of The Washington Post for his help in preparing these reports.
Have a good evening, everybody.