Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Juneteenth everyone,
I'm your in-town pooler on this newly declared federal holiday. President Biden is traveling to Wilmington this afternoon, but delivering remarks before departing on M1. (schedule copied at the bottom)
We're holding in the merciful air condition until the gathering time, shifted ahead to 1:45. I've requested a list of the people accompanying POTUS to Wilmington. Feel free to send me a note if you have any questions.
In house pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of President Biden's remarks.
Two minutes 'till the president delivers his remarks. Livestream here at whitehouse.Gov/live.
We're moving straight to the Ellipse afterward.
White House counselor Steve Ricchetti's daughter stopped by the podium earlier in a bright red blazer. Other than a threatening wasp flying through the room, no color to report.
(Also per a helpful reminder sent a bit ago tomorrow is the holiday, and today only the observation of Juneteenth. Enjoy celebrating nonetheless.)
POTUS concluded remarks at 3:00. He largely focused on progress on Covid metrics and encouraged Americans to get vaccinated.
He coughed more than a few times and spoke with a pen waving in his right hand.
He took questions at the end about the delta variant, the Catholic Bishops' resolution, and an infrastructure bill – responding at the end that he'd respond with his thoughts Monday when he got a copy of it.
Pool has gathered at the stakeout location for POTUS' departure.
POTUS saluted and boarded Marine 1 at 3:17 p.m. He waved to the pool but did not come by for questions.
M1 lifted off at 3:21 p.m.
Just received this list from wrangler Angela Perez:
Traveling with the President to Wilmington, Delaware:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Michael Gwin, Director of Rapid Response
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One landed at Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, at 16:03.
POTUS emerged a minute or two later after speaking briefly to pilots. He saluted greeters, waved briefly to pool and climbed straight into Suburban without coming over for questions.
Motorcade rolling at 16:11.
From White House:
Upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base, the President will be greeted by Colonel William Roche, Delaware Air National Guard Maintenance Officer
Motorcade pulled through gates to POTUS residence at 16:23.
White House called a lid immediately.
The journey was uneventful with just a few onlookers holding phones aloft in the modern fashion.
And that concludes our service for the day. Pool is getting back to the soccer.
White House passes along the following...
Preview of the week ahead:
From Press Secretary Jen Psaki:
Next week, President Biden will continue his engagement with both sides of the aisle on negotiations to pass the American Jobs Plan.
On Monday, the President will meet with lead financial regulators for an update on the state of the country's financial system and institutions. The meeting will cover regulatory priorities including climate-related financial risk and agency actions to promote financial inclusion and to responsibly increase access to credit.
On Friday, the President will deliver remarks to commemorate LGBTQ+ Pride Month.