Yesterday, Kentucky Governor Andy Beshear and Colorado Governor Jared Polis announced their support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework unveiled by President Joe Biden last week. In an additional show of support for the framework, the Michigan Urban Core Mayors issued a statement affirming its endorsement and the Michigan Municipal League and Michigan Mayors Association penned a joint statement backing the framework and calling for its swift passage.
The Michigan Urban Core Mayors noted that the framework will not only improve roads, bridges, and replace lead pipes, but it will also fundamentally improve people's lives.
"Infrastructure is the lifeblood between the people we represent and the places they live. Strong, resilient infrastructure sustains local economies, improves quality of life, provides equitable access to jobs, and protects the environment," wrote 
 on behalf of the Michigan Urban Core Mayors.
Similarly, 
 and 
, highlighted the importance of passing the bill to improve the quality of life for their residents. Additionally, the statement called for immediate action by Congress to pass the bill.
During his press conference, 
highlighted the importance of bipartisanship in Washington – something he suggested was lacking and necessary for the strength and unity of the country.
"First, we need something bipartisan coming out of Washington, DC. It would be good for all of us," said Governor Beshear. "These are huge needs that polling shows everybody across America agrees with regardless of party."
And in a statement, 
 said, "This is the transformational change we've been waiting for… I appreciate President Biden's engagement, bipartisan partnership and steadfast support for Coloradans as we build back stronger than before. Thank you to the bipartisan group of Senators who are willing to step up and get real work done."
The Urban Core Mayors (UCM) represent the cities of Ann Arbor, Battle Creek, Bay City, Dearborn, Detroit, Flint, Grand Rapids, Jackson, Kalamazoo, Lansing, Muskegon, Pontiac, and Saginaw.