Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach, Del., where it's cloudy and 72. Pool has been swept at the Cape Henlopen State Park parking lot, awaiting motorcade ride to Rehoboth Beach Convention Center.
POTUS will make remarks at 10:15 on the May jobs report, live-streamed at WhiteHouse.Gov/live. We have a "good weather call" which means that after remarks, he takes Marine One to Dover and flies Air Force One to JBA.
Travel pool will watch POTUS lift off from Rehoboth Beach on M1, then bus back to DC. A supplemental pool will meet POTUS at Dover AFB and fly AF1 with him to JBA.
At 10:26 am, we are rolling from the Biden beach house to Rehoboth Beach Convention Center, where POTUS will make remarks on the May jobs report.
Motorcade arrived at Rehoboth convention center at 10:32. You can watch POTUS's remarks at Whitehouse.gov/live. I will report any color.
There were a few folks snapping pix or video of the motorcade en route as we passed.
at 10:36 am
POTUS entered the conference room at the convention center at 10:38 am. Podium with presidential seal set up for him, two flags behind him.
"Hello folks" he began.
POTUS remarks concluded at 10:47.
Two questions on this afternoon's meeting with Sen. Capito. check transcript:
q. re this afternoon's meeting
i'm going to be having a talk this afternoon and I'll let you know after.
q. are you expecting a counteroffer?
I'll let you know this afternoon ...
He left the room to a shouted question re whether he has confidence in Dr. Fauci. Suddenly, POTUS's head peeked around the corner, and he answered:
"Yes I'm very confident in Dr. Fauci".
Motorcade rolling for landing zone at 10:52--
Uneventful drive to landing zone at Cape Henlopen State Park parking lot for Marine One departure to Dover. Motorcade arrived at 11 am. Potus and FLOTUS boarded M1 at 11:01- pool positioned a fair distance away.
M1 lifted off for Dover AFB at 11:06
Handing over to supplemental travel pool. Many thanks to co-poolers Jerome Cartillier and Nikki Schwab for all their help!
Happy Friday
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from Dover AFB where a supplemental pool that's made the trip from DC by bus is standing under wing of a small Air Force One awaiting the arrival of the President and First Lady, coming in on Marine One.
This pool will travel with POTUS and FLOTUS back to JBA on the small Air Force One.
M1 landed at 11:25 a.m. at Dover AFB and proceeded to taxi to a position near AF1.
POTUS and FLOTUS exited M1 at 11:30 a.m. They waved at the pool but didn't stop for questions, boarding AF1 at 11:31 a.m.
Air Force One was wheels up from Dover at 11:47 a.m. for the short flight to JBA.
The small AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 12:10 p.m.
POTUS and FLOTUS disembarked AF1 at 12:20 p.m. and walked to M1 without stopping for the pool.
M1 was wheels up at 12:25 p.m. Handing off to the third pool of the day, the in-town pool.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Jerry Zremski from the Buffalo News here. I’m the in town print pooler today: [
]
I’m on the Ellipse with the pool, awaiting POTUS’s arrival via Marine One.
I’ll send another report after he lands.
Marine One landed on the Ellipse at 12:34 p.m. POTUS and FLOTUS emerged at 12:36, waved at the pool and entered a black SUV a minute later without taking questions. POTUS, in a grey suit, could be seen in the back of the SUV, chatting on his cell phone as the vehicle headed off toward the White House.
The landing came just in time, as a severe thunderstorm warning was issued just minutes before the helicopter landed.
FYI today's briefing is now set for 1:15 p.m. National Economic Council Director Brian Deese will join Press Secretary Jen Psaki. It will be livestreamed.
The briefing has been pushed back to 1:30.
The briefing with Brian Deese and Jen Psaki has begun. It will be live streamed.
The briefing has ended.
We have a lid. Have a good weekend, folks.