Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Mexico City where it's a sunny 61 degrees.
VPOTUS kicks off the final day of her foreign trip by witnessing the signing of a memorandum of understanding with President Lopez Obrador this morning. The pair will hold a bilateral meeting and she'll later meet with female entrepreneurs and labor leaders.
Here's the schedule so far:
I'll update you on any schedule changes. Please feel free to reach out with any questions you may have.
Motorcade is rolling at 9:44 AM CST for Palacio Nacional.
Pool was loaded in the vans early and did not lay eyes on VPOTUS before we left the hotel.
The motorcade pulled up to the Palacaio Nacional at 9:54 AM CST after an exciting ride featuring dozens of cameramen on the back of motorcycles speeding alongside the motorcade.
At one point transit security tried to run off the motorcyclists from following us.
The motorcade turned off the main boulevard onto to an old brick street lined with onlookers standing in front of storefronts (mostly still closed this morning). We lost the motorcycles in the chase as we arrived at the palace.
Pool was escorted through a long corridor lined with members of the military to the Patio Central, which was adorned in Mexican and US flags. At the Center of the courtyard was a wooden desk with two chairs.
Military members dressed in green saluted VPOTUS and AMLO as they entered the patio at 10am.
The two stood off to the side as signatories signed the memorandum. The VP was wearing a mask and AMLO was not.
After the signing and a round of applause the pair exited at 10:01.
VP and AMLO stopped at 10:03 pm in front of The History of Mexico mural by Diego Rivera, in which AMLO appeared to explain the mural to the VP.
AMLO responded to a shouted question by US pool that he would discuss boosting security in talks with The VP and focus on the root causes of migration.
Noah Bierman will send out supplemental pool on the quotes. We're holding the bilat pool spray.
Background: While at the National Palace in Mexico City, President López Obrador will provide Vice President Harris a tour of The History of Mexico mural. In 1929, the Minister of Public Education José Vasconcelos commissioned Mexican artist Diego Rivera to narrate the history of the Mexican people through painting. Diego Rivera's completed The History of Mexico mural in the stairwell of the National Palace between 1929 and 1935. The mural depicts pivotal scenes of Mexico's history from ancient times to the future
While showing Harris the Diego Rivera mural in the courtyard, AMLO answered a shouted question about whether he would increase border security.
"We are very pleased to have her here and we will touch on that subject but always addressing the fundamental root causes"
Pool was told there was a limited pool for the bilat pool spray but your print pooler was barred from entering despite an agreement that one of two print poolers would be included. Mexican officials told your pooler she was not on the list and unable to go in.
I will send a supplemental pool report but the AP's Alex Jaffe is in the room and will send a report on behalf of print.
The event is live on ABC and can be viewed here:
Huge thanks to Alex Jaffe for providing this to print:
The rooms where the meeting is taking place are the official rooms in the palace typically used for meetings of state like this one. In one of the anterooms, there are portraits of leaders of different American nations, including one of George Washington & one of Jose Marti, the Cuban poet & revolutionary. They're holding the actual meeting in an elegant room outfitted with a long, polished wood table, gilt-framed mirrors on the wall and a huge crystal chandelier hanging over the table set with small American and Mexican flags and nameplates. They are rotating us in so we're each getting a minute or two to look. We are holding in one of the anterooms; Harris and AMLO are not yet in there, the meeting room (Leona Vicario room) appears to be empty
More color from Alex, who is said VPOTUS and AMLO entered at 10:42 am CST:
He walked in first, gestured to let her through, she walked to left, he to right side.
Staff are positioned behind the chairs.
Pool was being let in very briefly (20 seconds) to listen so pool is unable to hear. He's speaking, she hasn't started speaking yet as far as I can tell
Per Alex:
Pool had 20 seconds in there. Harris said "I strongly believe we are embarking on a new era" and something about cooperation because "you are closest to us." Will see if I can pull more from the tape
Some details on who was let into the pool spray: 1 of 3 wire reporters, 4 stills, 1 tv camera, 1 tv producer, no audio or print pool.
Details on the earlier memorandum:
Signatories:
Witnesses:

US Delegation:
Mexican side:
1. Olga Sánchez Cordero, Secretary of Governance
2. Marcelo Ebrard, secretary of external relations
3. Tatiana Clouthier, secretary of the economy
4. María Luisa Albores, secretary of environment and natural resources
5. Laura Elena Carrillo, executive director of the Mexican Agency for International Cooperation (AMEXCID)
6. Francisco Garduño, commissioner of the National Migration Institute
7. Esteban Moctezuma, Mexican ambassador to the United States
Huge thanks to Alex Jaffe for endeavoring to get us some partial quotes from the pool spray. We've asked the VP's team for complete quotes and will send if we get them. This is result of listening back to the TV pooler's ambient mic.
HARRIS: "I have enjoyed our many conversations but I have most enjoyed being able to see you and talk with you in person. As you have said, the United States and Mexico have a longstanding relationship, based on family, [inaudible] shared borders, based on a shared history. I strongly believe that we are embarking on a new era that [inaud.] interdependence and interconnection between nations."
Pool was escorted out of a holding room at the Palace at 11:57 am CST and waited outside the palace in the press vans for about 30 minutes.
We're rolling at 12:32 pm CAT.
Your pooler's press van was situated in front of the Vice Presidential limousine. Pool did not lay eyes on VPOTUS getting into the limo but did see large wooden doors open behind it at 12:30 pm local tome (just before the motorcade left). Members of the US delegation and staff were seen running to get into staff vans.
We're headed back to the Sofitel Mexico City Reforma where the VP will meet female entrepreneurs and labor leaders.
The motorcade arrived back at the Sofitel at 12:42pm CST.
VP Harris' bilat with AMLO lasted over an hour, per her office.
No motorcycle chase this time but the street was crowded with onlookers and residents moving about on this sunny Tuesday afternoon (now 73 degrees here).
We're holding for lunch. The next event with female entrepreneurs is scheduled for 1:45 pm CST.
Clarification on the last report on the VP's bilat:
Per the VP's office:
The VP met with AMLO privately before the bilat started for 30 mins. Bilat started, went for an hour. Following the bilat the VP and AMLO again met privately for about 40 mins, and then toured the murals together.
VP Harris is gaggling with travel pool before the next event.
Had a productive morning with AMLO.
"Direct and candid conversations"
"Very productive bilateral" on shared issues of security, vaccines, migration, narcotics (fentanyl entertaining Mexico through its ports), smuggling
"We made clear that the United States considers Mexico to be a partner on these issues"
Ali Mayorkas to visit here next week Pool entered at 2:14 pm CST
More tk
VP Harris spoke for six minutes with members of the travel pool.
She's addressed the border question overshadowing her trip to the region but said when she's in Guatemala "I think we should be having a conversation about Guatemala"
"In terms of border security, the work that we are doing together includes the work of processing migration within the country of Mexico and, and, in its southern border and then of course in Guatemala, which is part of the conversation we had yesterday, There is the work that we are doing around Mutual Aid around reinforcement of security issues, particularly as it relates to our concern about human trafficking and things of that nature. But look, here's the bottom line:
We have, and it is a legitimate correct conversation and concern, which is to address what is happening at our America's southern border, and no question about that.We cannot have that question and had that conversation without also giving equal weight and attention to what is causing that to occur.""And so, the work that we are doing by being in Guatemala yesterday and in Mexico today is the work of reinforcing the point that we have to look at not only what is actually happening at the border, but what is causing that to happen."
On meeting withAMLO:
"We had a very productive morning of with President Lopez Obrador. He and I spent a significant amount of time together one on one, and very directed candid conversations as well as a very productive bilateral meeting, and the Topics ranged from, especially in the bilateral meeting what we need to do around are interested in security, vaccines, and the pandemic of what we need to do on the issue of migration, and the relationship that Mexico in the United States have terms of our mutual interest in economic strength and security."
"It was, I believe, a very important conversation to have. At this level, where we made clear that the United States considers Mexico to be a partner on many of these issues. And, as evidenced by the MLU that we signed today between the United States and Mexico to combine our resources targeted at Central America and in particular the countries of El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala. There is work we are also doing together that relates to our shared interest and concern about smuggling in particular human trafficking an issue I've worked on for a long time, we have a shared interest in what is happening in terms of narcotics and the trafficking of narcotics, we spoke about that, in many ways, including specifically about our shared concern about fentanyl Entering the entering Mexico through its ports, and then arriving in the United States. We had a very productive conversation about specific issues related to that, including Mexico's recent enhanced port security initiatives, so there was a lot to discuss a lot of details. Allie my orcas Secretary I leave my office will be here next week. To follow up on the conversations we've had today."
More tk
Link to otter for gaggle: 
VPOTUS entered room and sat down for the roundtable at 2:25pm CST.
She kicked off discussions by saying there's work to do in terms of recognising the demands on a woman's life and what kinds of structures and systems are needed to support women (childcare , etc). Said the demands of the pandemic made disparities clear.
She and John S. Creamer, Chargé d'Affaires, asked for women around the table to share their stories.
Event is ongoing.
Participants at the women's roundtable
- Chargé d'Affaires John S. Creamer [moderator]
- Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National
Security Advisor to the Vice President
- Ingrid Orozco (CEO, Ulead International)
- Odile Cortes (Operations Director, Integrarse)
- Frisia Monsivais (Founder, WeMen)
- Paula Santilli (PepsiCo Latin America)
- Michelle Ferrari (Women Economic Forum)
VP Harris took notes as members of the roundtable spoke about initiatives to help women gain economic power. One woman spoke extensively about basic hurdles like getting people bank accounts, something that is hard here because you need a fixed income and many here work in the informal economy.
"Women are the original entrepreneurs," Harris said. "The ability to figure out how you could make something out of nothing and really run on nothing (laughs) every day. "
Pool was escorted out at 2:43pm CST.
The briefing with the Vice President has moved to 5:25 local time.
Pool just came out of a spray w labor leaders and will send an update shortly.
Harris entered the conference room on the 40th floor at the Sofitel hotel at 3:46 pm local time. Six labor leaders were seated in a u-shape. Harris sat between John Creamer, the charge d'affaires and Nancy McEldowney.
She spoke for 4 minutes before pool was taken out, highlighting the administration's labor commitment and calling it an auspicious day because the administration announced it was committing $130 million to Mexican efforts to improve labor standards, reduce child labor and other reforms.
"We believe that unions are what build the middle class. We believe that — and I certainly do — that anybody, regardless of whether they've been a member of a union or not has organized labor to thank for the eight hour work day, the weekends, sick leave, holidays…And I met with the President this morning. I know that he shares" that commitment, she said of AMLO.
Here is the transcript link. 
VP Harris is delivering remarks and taking questions from reporters in the same room where she earlier participated in a female entrepreneur roundtable and met with labor leaders. The tables have been cleared and a podium is set up before a cordoned-off press. U.S. and Mexican flags are positioned behind the podium against a fantastic vista of Mexico City on the 40th floor of the Sofitel Hotel.
The event is being livestreamed here so your pooler will not send quotes but will send along notable color from the room.
VPOTUS entered the room at 5:52 p.m. CST.
You can watch it here: 
VP Harris's began speaking at 5:52 pm CST and she finished speaking at 6:31pm CST.
She spoke for 43 minutes and took questions from five reporters on topics including voting rights, Title 42, going to the southern border and discussion of why the root causes are important but won't be resolved overnight.
Pool was escorted out at 6:33pm CST.
Pool was loaded into the press vans at 6:56 pm as the VP wrapped her final event wth US embassy personnel.
Your pooler did not spot VP Harris before we left the hotel. The motorcade is rolling for the airport at 7:14 pm CST.
Here's a list of greeters at the airport:
- Ms. Susana Iruegas, Director General of Protocol of Mexico
- Mr. Roberto Velasco Alvarez, the Director General for North America
- T.H. John S. Creamer, Chargé d'Affaires a.i. U.S. Embassy Mexico City
- His Excellency Esteban Moctezuma Barragán, the Ambassador of Mexico to the United States
- His Excellency Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico
AF2 touched down at 12:59 am ET.
VP Harris came to the back of the plane and spoke to reporters OTR at the beginning of the flight. It was an otherwise uneventful 4-hour flight back to JBA.
The Vice President stepped off AF2 at 1:11am ET and saluted a Marine before beginning to walk toward Marine Two. Harris stopped and turned around to wave to press before continuing f to walk to Marine Two, which lifted at 1:16 am ET.
That's it for the VP's first foreign trip. A big thanks to co-pooler Noah Bierman for the assist over the last three days as well as members of pool who helped out in the mad dash between events.