This commitment forms the basis of a comprehensive set of G7+ actions towards ending this global pandemic in 2022. The G7+ action plan that will be agreed to by leaders in Cornwall includes vaccinating the world's most vulnerable, providing emergency supplies, bolstering world-wide economic recovery, and positioning the international community to prepare for, prevent, detect, and respond to future biological catastrophes.
The United States will lead the G7+ in a global COVID-19 vaccination campaign, providing 500 million safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines for the world through COVAX, with delivery starting in August 2021. This donation, which President Biden announced yesterday, is the largest single donation of vaccines in history and comprises half of the G7+ commitment to provide an additional 1 billion safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine doses over the next 12 months, especially to the world's most vulnerable.
In addition, we are taking concrete and tangible steps to meet the ambition of the G7+ and drive action to end this pandemic and prevent the next. We call on other countries and private sector partners to join us.
To end the global COVID-19 pandemic, the United States and the G7+ will:
Through the $11.5 billion provided in the American Rescue Plan (ARP) for the global COVID-19 response, we will continue to strengthen our global response to and recovery from COVID-19, including by expanding investments in lifesaving medical supplies, including oxygen, diagnostics, therapeutics, and PPE. We urge the World Bank Group and the other Multilateral Development Banks to increase the speed of their financial support to the response.
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing, through the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), in local production capacity for safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines, which will support at least 1 billion vaccine doses by the end of 2022. This includes our efforts through the Quad Vaccine Partnership of the United States, India, Japan, and Australia, and with peer Development Finance Institutions including the IFC, Proparco, and DEG to support vaccine manufacturing in Africa – for Africa. We strongly support the aim of developing a regional network of surge capacity to produce medical countermeasures, PPE, and other lifesaving treatments and supplies.
We recognize that the above immediate actions to end the pandemic contribute to our collective longer-term preparedness. We are committed to developing sustainable surge capacity in every region to scale up medical countermeasures and supply production on a "no regrets" basis at the first sign of a health crisis.
Simultaneously, we will work expeditiously to advance global health security to prevent future biological catastrophes:
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing $500 million from the ARP to modernize public health data and infrastructure including establishing a new Center for Epidemic Forecasting and Outbreak Analytics at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which will help lead a new global pandemic early warning network. The American Jobs Plan (AJP) includes $30 billion toward building U.S. pandemic readiness, including by accelerating our ability to develop, produce, and deploy safe and effective countermeasures within 100 days.
And we will go further to Build Back Better:
The United States remains committed to saving lives and ending the COVID-19 pandemic now. We look forward to the adoption of the G7+ action plan this weekend. We call on other countries and private sector partners to support this ambition.