Pool Reports by 
, 
POTUS emerged from the motorcade at the Ellipse at 8:07 and immediately headed to board Air Force One.
No gaggle with reporters. DJ Judd of CNN shouted to no avail a question to POTUS on whether he still he could get a bipartisan deal on infrastructure.
POTUS, wearing a dark suit, was accompanied by FLOTUS, who was wearing a dark pantsuit.
Twitter video: 
Marine One lifted at 8:12. Handing things off to out of town pooler.
From the White House:
Traveling to Joint Base Andrews with the President and the First Lady:
Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Jordan Montoya, Director of Advance and Trip Director
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Biden and FLOTUS landed on Marine 1 at 8:24 am. After being greeted Biden came over the pool.
"Watch out for the cicadas" he said, saying one had just landed on him.
On the goal of the trip he said it was showing China abd Russia that the alliance is strong.
Strengthening the alliance, making it clear to Putin and China that Europe and the United States are tight."
He said he would be announcing a vaccine strategy for the world.
On cyber, asked if he come to sone rules of the road with Putin, he said "that will be a subject of our discussion"
Rolling at 8:37
After a gaggle with Jake Sullivan and Jen Psaki - you should have transcript - AF 1 is wheels down at RAF Base Mildenhall at 7:41 pm BST.
Pool is holding at hanger at Mildenhall. Copters and cargo plane have been moved to tarmac. We have military band, troops and families, big American and smaller British flags. Jill Biden about to speak.
This from WH:
Upon arrival at Royal Air Force Mildenhall, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Yael Lempert, Chargé d’Affaires ad interim, U.S. Embassy in London
Colonel Troy Pananon, Commander, 100th Air Refueling Wing
Melissa Pananon, Spouse of Colonel Pananon
Chief Master Sergeant Kathi Glascock, Command Chief, 100th Air Refueling Wing
Sydney Glascock, Daughter of Chief Master Sergeant Glascock
Here are the speakers in the hanger, per WH
Attending the President’s and the First Lady’s remarks are approximately 1,000 airmen, airwomen, spouses, and children from Mildenhall, Lakenheath, and Alconbury.
Remarks program at Hangar 814, Royal Air Force Mildenhall:
Honor Guard
God Save the Queen (recording)
TSgt Stephanie George sings The Star-Spangled Banner
Colonel Troy Pananon,100th Air Refueling Wing Commander
The First Lady
Sydney Glascock, Daughter of Command Chief, 100th Air Refueling Wing
The President
POTUS has finished shaking hands at 9:35 and we are rolling back down the tarmac to AF 1.
With apologies from your pooler, the gaggle came just as we were landing, and then we were motocading to the speech. I'm told many are still awaiting transcript. No major news, but for later in the summit note his language on vaccines -- he said WH will be speaking on it tomorrow, but the news has broken already -- the meaning of "strategic stability" at this first session with Putin and the challenges of getting to "longer and stronger."
Rolling on AF1 at 9:50.
We are wheels down at Cornwall Airport Newquay at 11:35 pm. Because of a bad weather call, POTUS wil drive to his castle/hotel, about an hour-long drive through the western rural territories of Cornwall. Alas, too dark and foggy to enjoy the scenery. Pool will accompany.
POTUS has arrived RON, at 1 am
Pool has many miles to go before it does same.
We have a lid (and another hour-plus bus ride).