Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from sunny Wilmington.
POTUS left his Wilmington home at 8:37 am
He is heading via motorcade to DANG, and will chopper to DC.
Here is a reminder of the day's schedule
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: FOX
Print: New York Post
Radio: CBS
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: FOX
Print: Washington Post
POTUS arrived at DANG via motorcade at 8:46 am
POTUS and Flotus seen boarding on marine 1 at 8:47 am
Marine 1 lifted off at 8:51 am
Handing off to in town pool
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning and happy Memorial Day.
Marine One landed at the Ellipse at 9:40. President Biden disembarked at 9:43 and did not speak with reporters.
The motorcade will be rolling soon toward Arlington cemetery for a wreath laying ceremony and presidential address.
The motorcade was rolling from the Ellipse at 9:45 and stopped inside Arlington cemetery at 9:58.
A small number of spectators watched the motorcade arrive. Uniformed service members lined the cemetery's interior drive and loud ceremonial booms could be heard as we rolled in.
President Biden presented a wreath at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier to mark Memorial Day at 10:11. He appeared to bow his head in prayer and crossed himself in front of the wreath, which already was in place on a stand.
Vice President Kamala Harris and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin accompanied him. Before Biden approached the wreath, he and Austin saluted the tomb as a military band played the National Anthem. Harris placed a hand over her heart.
We in the pool did not see Biden exit the Beast ahead of the ceremony.
Biden is scheduled to deliver a Memorial Day address around 10:30. His remarks will be carried live on the White House website and I will send a pool report when it begins.
President Biden began speaking at a largely empty Arlington Memorial Amphitheater at 10:34.
I will not be transcribing the remarks, but you can watch them live here: 
Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke before Biden.
Very few people are seated inside the amphitheater, but there's a military band and a couple distinct groups of spectators (one group of a few dozen is wearing blue, others are wearing red). Unmasked officials including VP Harris and VA Secretary Denis McDonough are seated under a raised colonnade.
The White House sent this information before the speech:
The President, First Lady, Vice President, and Second Gentleman are greeting with:
- Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
- General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
- Omar Jones, Major General, U.S. Army Commanding General, Joint Task Force NCR and the Military District of Washington
- Karen Durham-Aguilera, Executive Director, Office of Army Cemeteries, Arlington National Cemetery
President Biden's speech ended at 10:56.
Although much of the address featured familiar Biden commentary on grief and democracy, he also made some thinly veiled political swipes.
Biden said democracy is "in peril" in the US and at one point called on the press to report "facts, not propaganda." Please check the video for full context.
The White House shares the following:
In the audience during the President's remarks are Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) families and military.
The motorcade began rolling at 11:19 amid more loud ceremonial blasts.
The pool could not see President Biden as he rejoined the motorcade.
At 11:21 the motorcade came to a stop within Arlington cemetery at Section 12, per a co-pooler.
President Biden spoke with two adults and two children (a boy and a girl). It's not immediately clear who they are or which grave he visited. He continued walking after a few minutes and greeted another family, with whom he posed for a photo.
?The motorcade continued rolling at 11:28 after President Biden's stop.
The motorcade made an unscheduled trip up 14th St NW for a lunch stop at Le Diplomate, a popular French restaurant.
The motorcade came to a stop at 11:40 and the pool is holding in vans.
The White House shared the following:
The Vice President and the Second Gentleman are joining the President and the First Lady at Le Diplomate.
The motorcade began rolling again at 12:52.
The pool could not see if President Biden and the first lady interacted with any of the onlookers as they emerged from the restaurant. I suggest checking out social media, as there was a somewhat large crowd and some cheering.
The motorcade returned to the White House at 12:56.
We received a travel/photo lid at 1:40. Have a great day, everyone.