Pool Reports by 
, 
Good late morning from the White House, where there is a lunch lid until noon.
The press briefing is still on schedule, as are the rest of today's events. My contact information is below. And I'm around if you have any questions.
The briefing will now begin at 12:25 p.m., per WH.
Pool was escorted to the South Court Auditorium for POTUS' status report on Covid-19 and the kickoff to his National Month of Action urging more Americans to get vaccinated by July 4. The blue signage here is familiar, and includes the "We Can Do This" slogan. Jeff Zients, head of the president's Covid team, is seated in the front row. Most of the other chairs are empty and the pool is gathered in the back of the small auditorium.
The speech will stream live at the usual places.
President Biden finished speaking about vaccines at 1:58 p.m.
In response to a shouted question about whether he would retaliate against Vladimir Putin for the latest ransomware attack, Biden said "We're looking closely at that issue."
Asked if Putin was testing him, Biden said "no."
The speech was live-streamed, but some flavor below:
Biden urged Americans to get the shot and warned about the toll on the country come fall if the nation doesn't continue to improve its vaccination rates. "Do it for yourself. Do it to protect those more vulnerable than you," Biden urged. He reiterated that vaccines are safe and "extremely effective."
Biden said he doesn't want to see the already divided country cleave further over the issue of vaccines. "Getting the vaccine is not a partisan act," Biden said, noting that the production was done under presidents from both parties. "We need to be one America, united, free from fear," Biden added, a phrase he repeated.
Biden ran though his new initiative leading up to the July 4 holiday. It involves childcare for people so they can get vaccinated; rideshare rides; and a relaunch of his National Vaccination Tour led by Vice President Kamala Harris (who stood silently behind him), as well as the second gentleman and First Lady Jill Biden. The effort will also includes business and local government officials.
"Please, do your part," he concluded.
POTUS' meeting with Sen. Capito has started.
Another midday lid was called at the White House until 3:45 p.m.
President Biden's meeting with Sen. Capito is over, per WH.
Pool is gathering at the stakeout location now.
President Biden motorcaded to the Ellipse, arriving about 4:25 p.m.
Wearing a mask and carrying a stack of papers under one arm, he ignored shouted, inaudible questions from the pool about his afternoon meeting on infrastructure with Sen. Capito.
At 4:33 p.m., Biden lifted in Marine One from the Ellipse bound for Rehoboth Beach, Del.
The White House sends this note to the pool:
"This afternoon, the President hosted Senator Capito for a constructive and frank conversation in the Oval Office about how we can drive economic growth and benefit America's middle class through investing in our infrastructure. The two agreed to reconnect on Friday."
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One touched down in the landing zone (parking lot) at Cape Henlopen State Park at 5:30 pm. Pool had arrived earlier by bus.
Potus emerged from M1 at 5:33, saluted military, waved to the distant pool, got into Beast. Pool, standing on a sand dune, was too far away for shouted questions to be heard. Motorcade pulled out at 5:34.
The Biden beach house is nearby and pool is not joining the motorcade. Dr. Jill Biden is already here at the beach house, FLOTUS spokesman Michael LaRosa confirms.
This is President Biden's first trip to his Rehoboth beach home since becoming president. Tomorrow is Dr. Biden's 70th birthday.
When asked by email about her plans for tomorrow, spokesman Michael LaRosa sent this response: "She's spending a quiet birthday at home with the President."
It's 68, sunny, breezy. Rain expected tomorrow.
A little background gleaned from news reports: the Bidens purchased their Delaware North Shores home in 2017 for $2.7 million. The house has a swimming pool, overlooks Cape Henlopen State Park, and is blocks from the ocean and a short drive from downtown Rehoboth Beach.
Travel/photo lid was called at 5:45 pm. H/t to Nikki Schwab of Daily Mail on the LaRosa nudge.
ps. Here's a picture of the M1 landing, via Twitter. (That's M1 still in the air.)