Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach, where it’s actually sunny and warm - feels warmer than the 66 degrees on weather app.
Pool call time has been moved up to 10:20. Will apprise of POTUS/FLOTUS birthday activity when we know.
Pool is positioned along the Gordons Pond Trail at Cape Henlopen State Park. No word yet on timing, but Potus and FLOTUS are expected to bike by soon.
Trail is closed to the public, so the Bidens can ride, and regular folks hoping to bike/walk the trail are standing by.
It's partly cloudy, breezy, 79 degrees, chance of rain begins at 7 pm.
Also, per FLOTUS spokesman Michael LaRosa, no family or friends are joining the Bidens in Rehoboth Beach for Dr Jill Biden's birthday today.
According to Secret Service, the Gordons Pond Trail is not closed to the public.
Pool still awaiting potential bike ride by Potus and FLOTUS.
Bike riders are indeed being allowed to ride on the Gordons Pond Trail, and they and their bikes are being wanded by a Secret Service agent before they proceed down the trail. --
POTUS and FLOTUS biked by the pool at 1:06 pm. FLOTUS was directly ahead of Potus. They were surrounded by Secret service. Well-wishers shouted happy birthday to Dr Jill.
Potus ignored a shouted question about what he got her for her birthday.
Pool was repositioned a bit up the trail to catch a glimpse of POTUS and FLOTUS on their return trip. They biked by us at 1:58 pm. FLOTUS ahead of potus like last time.
Someone asked Potus: "did you enjoy your bike ride Mr President?" He responded "yes"
Crowd of well wishers sang Happy birthday to Dr. Biden.
Potus ignored a shouted question on Dr Fauci. Potus smiled at the pool.
Note: When they biked by the first time, Potus waved at the pool.
?Travel/photo lid was called at 2:07 pm.
Enjoy the rest of your Thursday.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
It is hot and muggy but also overcast at the White House. Happy Thursday. The president is not here. There is, however, a press briefing scheduled for 12:30. I am your in-town print pooler.
The briefing has started. It is live streamed.
The briefing has ended.