Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello ,
Your pool has been tested and is in place for the event gathering. Feel free to contact me if you have any questions.
More to follow on the attendees list and remarks.
The pool for Vice President Harris's meeting with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus was brought over to the Ceremonial Office at 2:19 pm. A mix of Congressional Hispanic Caucus are attending in person and virtually.
Your pooler awaits remarks from the pool spray.
Members in attendance include, per WH officials:
Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Chair Congressman Raul Ruiz
Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard
Congressman Albio Sires
Congressman Joaquin Castro (virtual)
Congresswoman Norma Torres
Congressman Vicente González (virtual)
Congresswoman Nanette Barragán (virtual)
Congresswoman Sylvia Garcia (virtual)
Vice President Harris offered remarks on vaccinations, international leadership and support of vaccine distribution on a global scale, small business aid, American Jobs and Family Plans, workers' rights, and addressing root causes of migration in the Northern Triangle
The Vice President highlighted that CEOs across the country are working with the administration to develop support for the Northern Triangle region.
A funny moment took place when an attendee forgot to mute themselves. The VP made a joke and continued on with her opening remarks.
We are bringing CEOs and private corporations in the US together to think about their support, and then again back to the point about agriculture and understanding that we are looking all over the world and particularly in this region, extreme climate incidents like the two hurricanes that devastated that region, and combining that with what we're seeing, such as drought in Guatemala. What that means to the economic base of this region, particularly because a large part of their economic strength has been in their agricultural industry, which have been directly impacted by the extreme weather. So this is some of the work that we can do together, and, and to address what I call, not only the root causes of the root causes of the migration, and, and just close my comments by saying, the impact of all these issues, we, the poverty, extreme, food insecurity, violence, domestic violence in the treatment of women and girls. So many of these issues are long standing.
Handing off pool duty.