Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on this beautiful Tuesday. Today's sked is on track: POTUS is visiting the Ford Rouge Electric Vehicle Center in Dearborn, MI. Marine One liftoff from Ellipse to JBA skedded for 9:40 am, touchdown at Ellipse at 5:30 pm.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki will gaggle on board AF1 en route Detroit, streaming at 
.
Will apprise if any updates.
Potus arrived at the Ellipse via motorcade at 9:45.
He waved to the pool and took off his mask right after emerging from the Beast, then walked straight to Marine One. Bruce Reed spotted also getting into M1. Travel pool will get the list of top aides accompanying.
M1 lifted at 9:49 am.
Handing over to travel pool.
From the press office:
The Press Secretary's gaggle aboard Air Force One will begin at ~10:45 AM. It will be piped into the briefing room and streamed live here: 
Marine One landed on the Ellipse at 4:58 pm, about a half hour ahead of schedule. POTUS stepped out at 5:00, waved to the pool, walked to the Beast and got in. Motorcade pulled away at 5:02. Pool is walking back to the White House.
Travel/photo lid called at 5:11 pm.
Have a lovely evening.
Via the press office:
On background:
Following last week's productive negotiations between the President, Senator Capito, and five fellow Republican Ranking Members of key Committees related to infrastructure, today White House senior staff and members of the Cabinet met with the same group to continue the dialogue and discuss new ideas.
White House Counselor Steve Ricchetti, Director of Legislative Affairs Louisa Terrell, National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, and Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg were encouraged by today's discussion; thanked Senators Capito, Barrasso, Blunt, Crapo, Toomey, and Wicker for their continuing engagement; and conveyed that the White House would follow up with them later this week.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Biden arrived at JBA and was greeted by Colonel Kimberly Welter, Vice Wing Commander, 89th Airlift Wing. He stopped and spoke with her near the plane for a minute or so. Press tried to entice POTUS to come over and answer questions but he waved and went up the Air Force One steps.
Psaki is going to gaggle at about 1045 which you can listen to on the WH website.
WH staffer told us that masks are required on Air Force One.
Full house Traveling with the President to Michigan:
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Ali Zaidi, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Climate Advisor
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President and Trip Director
AF1 Wheels up at 10:13.
One other note from before: Biden walked to AF1 without a mask.
We are on our descent and expect to land shortly.
Sporting a purple mask, Psaki gaggled for about 15 minutes which you can listen to online.
She discussed Israel-Palestine, future of electric vehicles (including for the WH fleet. The term "electric Beast" was used), previewed a bit about the trip today reading from a sheet with some handwritten notes on it, WH outreach efforts on the Hill today about the president's proposals, and the congressional debate over a January 6 commission.
CNN played on AF1 for the the flight.
If you all need anything I'm at [
]. And apologies if I mess anything up—longtime pool reader but first time pooler.
upon arrival at Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, the President was greeted by:
Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib (MI-13) (both masked, Biden unmasked and wearing aviator sunglasses).
Biden shook tlaib's hand first then have Dingell a long side hug. Tlaib began talking to POTUS about something and two were engaged in a conversation for a few minutes. The pool could not hear. After a few minutes Biden donned his own black mask and kept talking to the congresswomen for several more minutes with staff looking on. Eventually some staff began to circle and usher everyone away. Biden shook Tlaib's hand. Your pooler couldn't see if he shook Rep Dingell's
Your pooler caught the congresswomen as they walked to their transportation. Asked what they talked about, Rep. Dingell said "a lot of things" and added that they don't negotiate in public. Rep. tlaib didn't say anything.
Press is traveling in Chrysler mini-vans to the Ford factory (gas, not electric).
And now we're rolling.
Pool arrived at Ford factory at 12:04
Building has a "Home of the f-150 lightning Rouge electric vehicle center" banner
We didn't see POTUS.
?per WH, Upon arrival at the Ford Rouge Electric Vehicle Center, the President greeted with the following:
Gretchen Whitmer, Governor of Michigan
Garlin Gilchrist II, Lieutenant Governor of Michigan
Dana Nessel, Attorney General of Michigan
Dan Kildee, U.S. Congressman (MI-05)
Andy Levin, U.S. Congressman (MI-09)
Haley Stevens, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-11)
Brenda Lawrence, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-14)
Elissa Slotkin, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-8)
John B. O'Reilly Jr., Mayor of Dearborn
Mike Duggan, Mayor of Detroit
Warren C. Evans, Wayne County Executive
Donna Lasinski, Michigan House Minority Leader
Sylvia Santana, State Senator (SD-3-Dearborn)
Abdullah Hammoud, State Representative (HD-15-Dearborn)
Michael C. Taylor, Mayor of Sterling Heights
William R. Wild, Mayor of Westland
Aaron Payment, Chairman, Sault Saint Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians
Alex Wesaw, Councilmember, Pokagon Band of Potawatomi
Whitney Gravelle, Chairwoman, Bay Mills Indian Community
Trevor Pawl, Director, Michigan Office of Future Mobility and Electrification
Liesle Clark, Director, Michigan Department ofEnvironment, Great Lakes & Energy
Paul Ajegba, Director, Michigan Department of Transportation
Jim Blanchard, Former Governor of Michigan
Barry J. Goodman, Partner, Goodman Acker
Kerry C. Duggan, CEO, SustainabiliD
Virgie M. Rollins, Chair, Democratic National Committee (DNC) Black Caucus
Keith Williams, Chair, Michigan Democratic Black Caucus
Rev. Wendell Anthony, President of Detroit NAACP
Daryl Newman, President, Detroit AFL-CIO
Nina Bugbee, President, Teamsters Local 332
Steve Zimmerla, Ford Chief of Staff, UAW
Charles "Chuck" Browning, Director, UAW Region 1A
Laura Dickerson, Assistant Secretary, UAW Region 1A
Bernard "Bernie" Ricke, President, UAW Local 600
Nick Kattolis, Plant Chairman, UAW Local 600
Angela Powell, UAW worker at the Ford Dearborn Truck Plant
Inside the factory, Blue banner with "a future made in America?" with WH.Gov printed underneath. Another banner with the trucks and WH.gov
Biden began a mini tour of the vehicle process in front of the pool. Noting he was stepping to his "mark" on the floor, he then watch a video of how some of the machines word and said "I'll be damned"
Biden also talked a bit about Delaware and his love of cars.
Per, the WH, a list of those Participating in the tour of Ford Rouge Electric Vehicle Center:
Jim Farley, CEO, Ford Motor Company
William "Bill" Ford, Jr., Executive Chairman, Ford Motor Company
Rory Gamble, President of United Auto Workers (UAW)
Corey Williams, Plant Manager, Dearborn Truck Plant and Rouge Electric Vehicle Center (tour guide)
Liza Currie, Operations Manager (Stop 1)
Jamal Mance, Chassis Product Specialist (Stop 1)
Thomas "Tom" Moore, Team Leader (Stop 1)
Kumar Galhotra, President, Americas & International Markets Group, Ford Motor Company (Stop 2)
Elise Dorsey-Holden, Hourly Technician (Stop 2)
Ronald "Ron" May, Hourly Technician (Stop 2)
Brian Palmer, Team Leader (Stop 2)
Adrian Price, Exec. Director Global Manufacturing Engineering, Ford Motor Company (Stop 3)
Penny Cauzillo, Alignment Specialist (Stop 3)
William "Bill" Dorey, Product Specialist (Stop 3)
James Coleman, Team Leader (Stop 3)
Linda Zhang, Ford F-150 Chief Engineer (Stop 4)
Biden's second stop in front of the pool looked at the charging station network.
One of the people presenting mentioned to Biden that he was part of UAW (sounded like local 280 but wasn't positive).
Biden gave the man a fist bump.
Next stop on Biden's mini tour was looking at the the truck's chassis which is about the same size of the regular f-150.
Biden asked how heavy the car battery is. Ford employee who helped engineer the f150 said it was over 1800 pounds. Biden looked to the pool and noted how that means there's a low center of gravity.
The pool was escorted away and too a press area. WiFi password: futureofford
We are awaiting the president's remarks which will be given on a stage w/ "a future made in America" bannered on it and the union bug clearly visible. There are signs with the phrase that will also flank the president on the right and the left.
The President's remarks will be attended by local elected officials, community leaders, UAW members, and additional stakeholders. Your pooler spoke to two of them who were representatives of tribal communities. We count a few dozen people sitting in fold up chairs—social distanced and masked.
Speaking before the President:
William "Bill" Ford, Jr., Executive Chairman, Ford Motor Company
Rory Gamble, President of United Auto Workers (UAW)
Angela Powell, UAW worker at the Ford Dearborn Truck Plant
For Biden's remarks which will be streaming.
Michigan gov. Whitmer just walked over her to some applause.
?Biden concluded his remarks
Your pooler caught Rep. tlaib as she left and asked what she talked to the president about earlier in the day. She said we should reach out to her staff.
Per the White House, The President is meeting with Governor Gretchen Whitmer. Pool is holding in the vans.
And we are rolling at 2:41
Your pool made an unscheduled stop at the Ford testing site. The pool is standing behind cones at the landing strip for "our safety."
Asked if Biden was driving, Jen Psaki said "we'll see".
Then president Biden appeared driving fast in a grey-ish f-150 lightning truck.
Biden drove by the pool with the window open "This sucker's quick" he told the pool.
He then said the car goes 0-60 in about 4.4 seconds and asked a Ford representative for clarification on the exact number. The Ford rep said that info wasn't public until the official reveal tomorrow but said that's ok and laughed.
The pool asked the president if we could ask a question about Israel. The president said "no, you can't. Not unless you get in front of the car as I step on it. I'm only teasing".
Biden said: "Okay, here we go ready?"
And then he floored it. Biden eventually turned around and honked as he went by.
We are rolling at 304.
The president walked up the steps of Air Force one, saluted, and went inside. The pool is boarding at 3:25.
Wheels up on af1 at 3:31.
Biden walk down the stairs of af1 with a mask, then took it off when he was saluting the greeting officer. He walked with her to marine one.
Kate bedingfield, Jen psaki, and other aides then walked down the steps and joined them at 4:45.
Also the greeter was the same as this morning Colonel Kimberly Welter, Vice Wing Commander, 89th Airlift Wing. Biden did not take questions.
And with that, turning it over to in-town pool. Thanks everyone.