Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'll be your print pooler at the White House today. President Biden will meet this afternoon with the family of George Floyd, though it is closed press as of now. The president will also make a quick trip to Delaware this evening for what is billed only as a "local stop."
Press secretary Jen Psaki will hold a briefing at 12:30. If you're unable to be in the room but have a question you want answered, feel free to send it along and I'll do my best to ask it.
Finally, flagging for those who missed it: From a White House official: Today, the United States will reach 50% of American adults fully vaccinated.
Feel free to reach out with any questions!
The press briefing with Jen Psaki will now be at 1 PM, per the White House.
The press briefing has now been moved to 12:45, per the White House.
Two-minute warning for the briefing was issued at 12:46 p.m.
You can follow along here: 
The press briefing ended at 1:31 p.m. All but a few reporters in the room got questions in.
The president is scheduled to meet shortly in the Oval Office with the Floyd family, and they will be joined by Vice President Harris. I will pass along any readouts or additional details should it open up to the pool, or should anyone make remarks after.
Per the White House: "The President and the Vice President’s meeting with the family of George Floyd has started."
Will pass along additional updates as I get them, including whether the family decides to speak with reporters after the meeting.
The president's and vice president's meeting with Floyd family concluded after roughly one hour, per the White House.
Reporters have assembled at the stakeout awaiting the Floyd family should they come out to speak.
The family, along with attorney Ben Crump and a few other attorneys, is now speaking with reporters at the stakeout location just outside the West Wing. Here are the family members who met with the president and VP, according to the White House:
Will send quotes and color.
The family and attorneys spoke to reporters for roughly 10 minutes and took one question before departing.
Will send fuller quotes shortly. Some highlights:
Crump said the family will meet with Sens. Booker and Scott this afternoon to push for passage of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. Biden told the family he would patient "to make sure it's the right bill, not a rushed bill," Crump said.
Philonise Floyd said it was a "great" meeting. Called Biden a genuine guy and expressed appreciation for the opportunity to meet.
Rodney Floyd: "Today is about the remembrance of our brother George Floyd."
The speakers each addressed the need to pass police reform. They all raises their fists at one point, said "say his name," and said "George Floyd" in unison.
Crump was asked about GOP desire for buy in from policing organizations and the debate over qualified immunity.
Crump said the group was going to meet with Booker and Scott to continue to talk about a bipartisan bill.
"We don't think it was to be one against the other. It should be that we all want better policing," he said.
"This is an American issue. This isn't a police issue or a civil rights issue, Crump said.
Video of the full remarks is available here: 
Some fuller quotes from family members:
Ben Crump said the meeting lasted for more than an hour. "I know the president was very personal because he got to know this family over the years, and he wanted to check on them on today of all days to see how they were doing. To reiterate that they are still doing everything to make sure that his legacy is respected, and that involves us going to meet with senators in just a few moments to continue to press forward for the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act that he says he is ready to sign any day.
"He said that he doesn't want to sign a bill that doesn't have substance and meaning. So he is going to be patient to make sure it's the right bill, not a rushed bill."
"Also the family encouraged the president to continue to meet with the civil rights leaders and advocacy groups who have been working on this for decades," Crump said, citing leaders of the NAACP, the Urban League and others.
Philonise Floyd: "We met with the president and the VP. It was just for the remembrance of what happened to my brother. Because this was his day that he was murdered. It was great. He's a genuine guy. They always speak from the heart, and it's a pleasure just to be able to have a chance to meet with them when we have the opportunity to.
We're just thankful for what's going on and we just want this George Floyd Policing Act to be passed in the future.
"If you can make federal laws to protect the bird which is the Bald Eagle, you can make federal laws to protect people of color."
Rodney Floyd said the day is about "the remembrance of our brother George Floyd. Father, uncle, friend, cousin, and Mr. President and Vice President gave us their condolences just keeping up and touching back on what happened last year, reiterating everything. They asked us how we were doing. Are we taking care of ourselves... and asked us all about how we're feeling and what's going on today about our brother. And we're thankful that they showed great concern."
Terrence Floyd: "Being here today is an honor. To meet with the president and the vice president and for them to show their concern to our family and for them to actually give an ear to our concerns and how we feel on the situation. I feel it was a very productive conversation, and I'm grateful for it."
Brandon Williams, George Floyd's nephew: I think that the meeting went well. He showed concern, and I think genuinely he wanted to know exactly how we were doing and what he could do to support us."
Biden told the family he's "not happy" about the deadline for the legislation not being met, but wants to make sure it's the right bill and that it "holds George's legacy intact."
In-town pool is gathering for President Biden's departure from the Ellipse to Delaware Air National Guard Base in Wilmington.
President Biden arrived at the Ellipse via motorcade at 5:15 p.m. He spoke to the pool for four minutes before boarding Marine One. He addressed his meeting with the Floyd family, policing reform talks, Nord Stream 2, Belarus and infrastructure talks.
On infrastructure, he laughed and said he doesn’t negotiate in public. On policing reform he said he’d spoken with negotiators on the issue. And asked about possible sanctions on Belarus he said they were in play but that he didn’t want to speculate.
I will send fuller quotes ASAP.
Marine One lifted off at 5:25 and flew away into the distance. Handing off to the out-of-town pool.
Fuller quotes from Biden's gaggle with reporters before departing from Delaware. As always, check against the official transcript as it was difficult to hear with the helicopter in the background:
He said he's making the trip to Wilmington to attend the funeral of a long-time former staffer.
"I got a chance to spend a lot of time with Gianna and the family, and we just talked about- you know, it's the one-year anniversary. And those of you that have been through personal loss know that although every anniversary is, you're happy people remember, it also brings everything back immediately like it happened that day. It takes a lot of courage to go through it. And they've been wonderful."
Asked specifically about George Floyd's young daughter, Gianna, Biden said the first thing she did was run to him and give him a hug, then asked for snacks. Gianna had Cheetos and milk (possibly chocolate milk) during the visit to the White House, he said.
"My wife's going to kill me," he joked after listing the snacks.
Biden said he's spoken with negotiators on policing reform and he's "hopeful that after Memorial Day" there will be a potential deal.
 Biden said he opposed the project "from the beginning" but noted it's almost completed at this point.
"To go ahead and impose sanctions now would, I think, be counterproductive in terms of our European relations. They know how strongly I feel."
 "I never negotiate in public."
 "That's in play. I don't want to speculate until we get it done."
Marine One landed on the Ellipse just outside the White House complex at 9:28 p.m. Biden disembarked and gave a quick wave to the pool but walked to his awaiting motorcade without stopping to speak to reporters. The motorcade drove off at 9:32 p.m.
With that, we have a travel/photo lid. Have a good evening, everyone.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Marine One landed at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 6:09 p.m. Pool arrived at 5:52 p.m. via Osprey.
The White House earlier described this as a "local stop." I will update when more information is available.
Motorcade moving soon.
Motorcade left DANG at 6:16 p.m. and arrived at funeral home at 6:31 p.m. Trip was uneventful with people along the way waving and capturing the scene on their phones.
Pool will hold in bus.
From the White House:
President Biden, accompanied by his son Hunter Biden, will pay his respects to the family of Norma Long at Chandler Funeral Homes in Wilmington, DE. Norma worked for President Biden’s Senate Office for over thirty years. She was beloved by her colleagues in Delaware and Washington, D.C., and by the entire Biden family.
Traveling with the President to Wilmington, Delaware
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Russell Travers, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Emilie Simons, Assistant Press Secretary
Upon arrival at Delaware National Guard Base, the President was greeted by Colonel Roy Hilferty, Delaware National Guard.
Motorcade is on the move at 6:59 p.m., meaning POTUS was inside for roughly a half hour.
Pool did not see POTUS.
Motorcade has made a stop at President Biden’s residence in Wilmington.
Pool holding in bus.
Motorcade is rolling from Biden residence at 8:18 p.m., to DANG.
Pool wasn’t given a reason for the stop.
Motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 8:29 p.m., and POTUS got on Marine One.
Pool loaded in Osprey for the return to JBA.
Osprey landed at JBA at 9:02 p.m.
Marine One, for record keeping, lifted in Delaware at 8:36 p.m. Thanks to AP's Darlene Superville for that detail.
Have a pleasant night.