Even before the pandemic uprooted our daily lives, nearly one in five Americans were experiencing a mental health or substance use condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated mental health conditions with unprecedented social isolation, historic job loss, widespread sickness, persistent food instability, and unfathomable grief. Recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) indicate that one-third of adults report experiencing anxiety and depression. While we are making critical progress in addressing COVID-19 and reopening safely, we know that addressing the burden of mental health and substance use in the US requires continued action. Concerning trends underscore the urgency: suicide is currently the 10th leading cause of death in the US, and overdose deaths are on the rise with over 90,000 deaths in the twelve-month period ending in September 2020.
Effective treatments for mental health and substance use conditions are available, and recovery is achievable. However, for far too long, Americans have faced barriers navigating our mental health care system. Underlying attitudes about mental health and substance use conditions only make it more difficult to find timely help. We must eliminate these barriers and expand access to the full continuum of prevention, treatment, and recovery services. At the same time, we know that there are many groups that face unique and increased risks. We must close disparities in access and outcomes, eliminate bias and discrimination, and address the systemic barriers, including racism, that have contributed to historic inequities.
All Americans deserve services that are timely, affordable, accessible, equitable, and high-quality. These are our family members, friends, neighbors, school peers, and coworkers. As a nation, we can and must do better.
The Biden-Harris Administration has taken the following initial actions to strengthen access to mental health and substance use care in the United States. Specifically, the Administration has:
This is only the beginning. The Biden-Harris Administration will continue efforts designed to improve mental health and substance use prevention, treatment, and recovery. We are committed to expanding access to affordable, quality services across the continuum of prevention, treatment and recovery, combatting the opioid crisis, and eliminating the stigmatization of those who need help.
To help us get there, the President Biden's FY22 discretionary budget called for more than doubling the funding to address mental health and substance use, including additional resources to support those involved in the criminal justice system, resources to partner mental health providers with law enforcement, and funds to expand suicide prevention.