Pool Reports by 
, 
?Hey all.
I'm happy, pleased, and honored to be your pooler for the day.
The White House has passed along these read outs from yesterday's meetings:
President Biden always appreciates time with Senator Carper, with whom he's been working on behalf of the people of Delaware for decades. They had a productive conversation about the American Jobs Plan, and particularly the need for meaningful infrastructure investment.
President Biden enjoyed speaking with Senator Manchin about the American Jobs Plan and their shared goal of rebuilding our country, especially when it comes to investing in rural communities.
Feel free to ping me with any questions or concerns.
WH just advised that the briefing, originally slated for noon, has been bumped back by 30 minutes. Also, there's guests:
The press briefing will now be at 12:30 PM. The Press Secretary will be joined with Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm and Deputy Secretary of Energy David Turk.
The WH passes along another scheduling update, to say that the WH briefing (originally booked for noon, then pushed to 12:30pm) will now begin after POTUS' virtual meeting with the governors (the current daily guidance indicates that meeting, livestreamed from South Court Auditorium, will take place at 1pm)
The WH has announced a lunch lid until 12:30pm
WH passes the following along to the pool, regarding a meeting today with the Democratic senator from Arizona:
The President is hosting Senator Sinema at the White House today to discuss the American Jobs Act and the ongoing negotiations in Congress about investing in our infrastructure.
POTUS is meeting virtually with a bipartisan group of governors, scheduled to begin shortly. According to WH guidance, the event is being taped from the South Court Auditorium. It is closed to press and unavailable to your pooler, so alas, there will be no color to pass along from inside the room (from outside the room, I can report that your pooler has not yet spotted any cicadas from the edge of the White House lawn)
The meeting will be streamed here: 
The WH briefing is slated to start sometime after the POTUS meeting with governors.
WH advises that the briefing will now be held at 2pm, and that the Press Secretary Jen Psaki will now be joined by: Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm and Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas.
Briefing about to start. In 2 minutes.
And at 3:34pm the White House has called a lid.