Pool Reports by 
, 
?Good afternoon from the White House where it's a warm, sunny and beautiful day! I'll be your print pooler for today.
The press briefing will now be at 1pm (moved back from 12:30). Your pooler was COVID tested.
Everything else is on schedule, with the President set to sign the Hate Crimes Act at 2:00pm. President Biden and Vice President Harris will then deliver remarks from the East Room.
Please feel free to pass along a question for the briefing and I'll do my best to get it in.
?Two-minute warning for the briefing. It will be live streamed, but I'll provide color if/when necessary.
Press briefing began seconds after the 2 minute warning. It's being live streamed
Briefing ended at 1:51pm. Pool gathered at the Palm Room doors for the president's Hate Crimes Act signing at 1:54pm.
Pool on the move as of 1:55pm.
Press entered the East Room at 1:57pm. It's a very full room and largely maskless. Everyone is currently chatting amongst each other and there are white and gold chairs with name tags on the seats for attendees.
This event will be live streamed but I'll provide color if necessary.
?Passing along background from WH on those in attendance:
?
, the President will sign the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law in the East Room.
Those in attendance for the ceremony include:
?Two-minute warning issued for event at 2:24pm.
POTUS and VP walked in at 2:27. Those in attendance stood, clapped and boisterously cheered as they took the stage. Event is being live streamed. VP began speaking at 2:28pm.
Additional background from WH: There are 68 people in attendance.
POTUS spoke with those on stage just after the event (out of earshot of your pooler) and did not answer questions shouted from the pool about the ceasefire. Event concluded at 2:?51pm.
Pool was ushered out of the room as POTUS and VP were still in the room chatting.
Copying some background information here from WH on POTUS and FLOTUS morning meeting:
This morning, the President and the First Lady met with the 43rd Kennedy Center Honorees, who are being recognized for their significant contributions to American culture through the performing arts. Participants included:
David M. Rubenstein, Chairman of the Boards of Trustees, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Deborah Rutter, President, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Debbie Allen, Honoree
Norm Nixon, spouse of Debbie Allen
Joan Baez, Honoree
Jasmine Jankelow-Harris, granddaughter of Joan Baez
Garth Brooks, Honoree
Trisha Yearwood, spouse of Garth Brooks
Midori, Honoree
Charles Danziger, business partner of Midori
Dick Van Dyke, Honoree
Arlene Silver, spouse of Dick Van Dyke
Valerie Biden Owens
We have a travel/photo lid at 3:26pm. Enjoy this hot weather and please don't hesitate to reach out if you have any questions for me!
Hey all, apologies for the confusion. We are back at the White House and the lid was lifted as of 4:39.
Passing along from the WH:
The President will deliver remarks on the Middle East at 5:45 PM.
?Pool gathering at 5:34 for POTUS remarks? and ushered inside through the Palm Room and up to the Cross Hall, where POTUS will speak, at the same time.
Pool is told POTUS will give remarks closer to 6pm.
Two-minute warning for POTUS remarks announced at 6:02.
This will be live-streamed and I'll provide color if/when necessary.
POTUS walked out of the Blue Room at 6:04 and began speaking. It's being live-streamed.?
Remarks concluded at 6:08pm. POTUS did not answer questions shouted by the pool.?
Lid called at 6:08pm. That's all from me, enjoy the evening!