Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House where Vice President Harris is meeting with a group of voting rights advocates in the South Court Auditorium at noon. Pool has inquired about who will be in attendance.
The event will not be livestreamed but remarks will be posted after on the White House YouTube page.
Later the VP will meet with LGBTQ stakeholders to mark Pride Month in her ceremonial office.
Pool has been tested and we're awaiting the first event to begin. Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
From the VP's office:
Today at 12:00 PM ET, the Vice President will participate in a virtual discussion with 20 members from leading civil rights and voting rights groups. Following last night's Senate vote on the For the People Act, the meeting will provide an opportunity to discuss the path forward and recommit to protecting voting rights. This meeting builds on the Vice President's work to bring together a national coalition on voting rights, to promote voter registration and engagement Americans across the country to protect our fundamental right to vote. She will drive the message that the "fight is not over" and that President and the Administration remain committed to ensure that all Americans have access to the ballot.


Pool entered the auditorium at 12:13 pm.
VP Harris was seated at a small white table placed on the right side of the stage against the backdrop of three large screens featuring the virtual attendees.
She opened the event by saying she believes the role she and the administration can play is to "support all the work you've done historically, and recently around convening folks, lifting up the voice of the people. And, and thinking about what is our strategy to do what I think collectively is our goal, which is to ensure that all people in our country have an unfettered access to the ballot box, understanding that our democracy will be as strong as the ability of the people to participate, and any attempts to weaken or lessen the participation of the people in their democracy will result in a week or nation."
Said getting every Senate Democrat in last night's vote was a "feat" and should be considered an accomplishment.
Said there was unity in the Democratic caucus in recognizing the importance of moving forward, to ensure that the American people have full access to the ballot box.
More TK.
Says Jan. 6 was one of the "vivid outrageous examples" of an attack on democracy.
"We know that our democracy is under attack in many ways, and that we must preserve the promises of a democracy, including appreciating that the right to vote is fundamental to that"
Says her most recent count is 389 anti-voting bills in 48 states.
Harris said there may be some who have been intent on attacking voters rights, who will perhaps think that there's some wind in their sails, because of what happened last night in terms of the vote.
She said opponents of the bill didn't have the courage to debate the bill.
"The fact is our fight does not look very different than it did yesterday."
Says they will continue to work toward passing federal legislation.
"And again, it's about what we can do to uplift all the voices around stopping legislation that is in process, but also addressing what must happen in those states where legislation has already passed to empower voters, and to navigate the system that has been tampered with."
Called this "an inflection point" and said she and the president remain undeterred.
She finished her remarks after about 13 minutes and pool was escorted out at 12:27 pm.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hi there - I'm taking over VP print pool duties this afternoon.
Vice President Harris is having an in-person meeting with seven LGBTQ+ advocates today at 4:00 PM in her Ceremonial Office as a part of Pride Month. The Vice President will discuss her support for the LGBTQ+ community and will amplify the progress that has been made. She will highlight her commitment to combatting discrimination, intolerance, and hate that many LGBTQ+ Americans face each day.


The Vice President refused to defend Prop 8 and played a key role in bringing marriage equality back to California as it was litigated in the courts. When many were content with civil unions, she performed marriages on the steps of city hall.

 Some additional color:

The event is taking place in the VP's ceremonial office.
The preferred pronouns of attendees are on their name tags.
We're holding for now - more TK
Pool was brought in at 4:07 p.m. We left at 4:13 p.m.
She answered no questions including on the border trip and if former President Trump's trip motivated it being scheduled.
VPOTUS said while this is Pride month this is a conversation that needs to be had "Every day of the week all year round."
"My pronouns are she and her," she also said.
"There's a lot of work to be done."
Talked about how she and the president are "allies."
Harris spoke a bit about her record on LGBTQ issues in California, including officiating the first marriage in the state.
Talked about rescinding the trans military ban. And how the VA will cover gender affirming surgery.
More TK