Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House on a warm and cloudless day.
POTUS's public events today: attend and deliver remarks at the funeral ceremony of Senator John Warner at the Washington National Cathedral at 11am; deliver remarks on the Administration's gun crime prevention strategy in the State Dining Room at 3.30pm.
There is a press briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki at 12.45pm.
Pool is now seated in the press vans awaiting departure to Washington National Cathedral for Senator John Warner'a funeral ceremony.
Motorcade is rolling to Washington National Cathedral at 10.40am.
POTUS's motorcade arrived at Washington National Cathedral at 10.50am after an uneventful journey that included passing by the Watergate complex, British embassy and Vice President's residence.
Pool is now on the south balcony of Washington National Cathedral for a funeral ceremony for Senator John Warner, who died on May 25. The seats are mostly full with no physical distancing but nearly all attendees are wearing face masks.
An art installation of nearly 2,000 origami doves is suspended above the nave. A tall candle is burning near the pulpit. Light is shining through magnificent stained glass windows.
When pool entered, musicians were playing Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings. The order of services says there will be tributes by POTUS, Admiral Michael Mullen, Senator Mark Warner and Senator Tim Kaine.
The White House says POTUS met the Warner family and:
'Seated with the President and the First Lady:
- Speaker Nancy Pelosi
- Mr. Paul Pelosi
- Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
- T.H. Elaine Chao
- Senator Patrick Leahy'
POTUS, wearing dark suit and white shirt, walked to the pulpit and began speaking at 11.20am, his voice echoing in the cathedral as he described it as "a great honor" to be invited.
POTUS noted that Senator Warner belonged to a different political party but spoke of the need to reach across the aisle.
He said: "Empathy is the fuel of democracy. The willingness to see each other as opponents, not enemies. Above all, to see each other as fellow Americans, even when we disagree."
Later he said: "In the battle for the soul of America today, John Warner is a reminder of what we can do when we come together as one nation."
His remarks are continuing. More to follow.
POTUS finished speaking at 11.30am. He walked slowly, with a binder under his left arm, back to the pews.
Admiral Michael Mullen is now speaking from the pulpit.
From the White House:
'Additional Funeral Program Participants:
- The Very Reverend Randolph Marshall Hollerith
- Retired U.S. Navy Admiral Michael G. Mullen
- Senator Mark Warner
- Senator Tim Kane
- Mary Conover, daughter of Senator Warner
- Rita Meyer
- Virginia Warner, daughter of Senator Warner--'
After taking off a black face mask, POTUS acknowledged family members and others present at the cathedral.
He said: "A few days after John's passing, I visited Arlington National Cemetery on Memorial Day. A sacred place on a solemn day when we undertake the fundamental act of remembrance and, amid the moments I was there and the monuments of stone, we remember each marker represented a precious life, remember the heroes of the greatest generation the world has ever known and that bears a noble name: the United States of America, the only nation founded on an idea, that we're all created equal, endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights including life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness and a democracy that is the very soul of our nation and must be defended at all costs.
"A soul embodied by all those patriots buried at Arlington and in fields across the world and by our dear friend John Warner. Like many here, I had the privilege of serving with John for three decades in the United States Senate. While we represented different political parties, I can say without hesitation John was a man of conscience, character and honor with a deep commitment to God and country.
"He enlisted in the United States navy at age 17 to fight in world war two. A few years later he enlisted in the Marine Corps to fight in Korea. Eventually named Secretary of the Navy by President Nixon, then elected to the United States Senate where he became a towering and respected voice on foreign policy, national security and defense. The second longest serving senator from Virginia and the longest serving Republican.
"A member of the greatest generation and, as that, he understood that democracy is more than a form of government. Democracy is a way of being. He understood it begins and grows in an open heart and with a willingness to work across the aisle and come together in common cause, and that empathy – empathy – is the fuel of democracy. The willingness to see each other as opponents, not as enemies. Above all, to see each other as fellow Americans, even when we disagree. From John's perspective, especially when we disagree.
"That's how John forged consensus and made sure our system worked and delivered for the people. I saw it time and again on issues of war and peace. John opposing torture and ending gun violence and protecting the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. John's decisions were always guided by his values, by his convictions, and never by personal political consequences. And was always guided by his obligation to all those he represented, even those who did not vote for him.
"Every senator wears the pride of his or her state on their sleeve but John's love for the people of Virginia was something special and they loved him back, kept reelecting him, because they knew John understood the job of senator was bigger than himself. It was about more than just John.
"And as we say in the Senate – excuse me, a point of personal privilege – when John endorsed me for president last year, it carried an extra meaning for me. The senators and congresspersons here will understand this. It wasn't merely that a prominent Republican endorsed me. When John endorsed me, it gave me confidence not about winning but being able to do the job. John gave me confidence."
"You know, in the battle for the soul of America today, John Warner is a reminder of what we can do when we come together as one nation. While we've never made real the full promise of America for all Americans, John's life is a reminder that every generation – every generation – has opened the door of opportunity a little bit wider. Every one. And the mission handed down generation to generation is to work on perfecting the union. A mission he now leaves us with a way forward.
"That's the power of remembrance. It lies not just on our history but on our hope for the future, not just on solace but in our strength. It lies in our hearts to continue the work of democracy, the work of our time, of all time, and the work of John's whole life."
POTUS then offered thanks to Warner's Senate staff and words of comfort to his family, quoting the Bible and the poem 'American Anthem'. He ended his remarks: "John Warner gave his best to America... May God bless him. He was a good man, a great American. It was an honor to have known and worked with him."
From the White House:
'The press briefing will start when the in-town travel pool returns, around 1:30 PM.'
The funeral of Senator John Warner ended with singing of 'America the Beautiful' and a lone bagpiper walking down the nave playing 'Scotland the Brave'. Pool is heading to the motorcade.
POTUS's motorcade is rolling to the White House.
?From the White House:
'The press briefing will now begin 
.'
POTUS's motorcade arrived back at the White House at 1.10pm after an uneventful journey.
We have a two minute warning for the White House press briefing.
The press briefing with Press Secretary Jen Psaki began at 1.23pm. She started by saying President Biden believes the surge in gun violence is "unacceptable".
Livestream here:
The press briefing ended and a lunch lid was called until 3pm.
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS's remarks on the Administration's gun crime prevention strategy.
The pool gathering dissolved for now due to POTUS"s schedule running late. In the meantime, the White House sends the following:
'Participating in the roundtable on crime prevention and intervention:
- Attorney General Merrick Garland
- Steve Allender, Mayor of Rapid City, South Dakota
- Brandon Scott, Mayor of Baltimore, Maryland
- Daniella Levine Cava, Mayor of Miami-Dade County, Florida
- Gurbir Grewal, Attorney General of New Jersey
- DeVone Boggan, Founder and CEO of Advance Peace
- Eddie Bocanegra, Senior Director of READI Chicago, Heartland Alliance
- Susan Rice, Domestic Policy Advisor
- Julie Rodriguez, Director of Intergovernmental Affairs
- Chiraag Bains, Criminal Justice and Guns Policy, Domestic Policy Council
- Stef Feldman, Senior Advisor to the Director of the Domestic Policy Council
- Gabe Amo, Deputy Director of Intergovernmental Affairs'
Pool is now gathered in the State Dining Room where the presidential lectern is set up beneath a chandelier and portrait of Abraham Lincoln. Twenty-three gold chairs with cushions are arranged in three rows to the left of the lectern but guests have not yet arrived.
From the White House press office:
'The President's meeting with stakeholders in the Roosevelt Room has ended.
All guests are in place. POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 4.55pm with Attorney General Merrick Garland, who is speaking first. Live stream here:
From the White House:
'Attendees for this afternoon's remarks:
, Director of the Domestic Policy Council
, Senior Advisor and the Director of the Office of Public Engagement
, Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
, Mayor of Baltimore, MD
, Mayor of Miami-Dade County, FL
, Attorney General of New Jersey
., Chief of Police of Baton Rouge, LA
, Founder and CEO of Advance Peace
, Senior Director of READI Chicago, Heartland Alliance
, Chief of Staff for Mayor Brandon Scott
, Federal Affairs for Mayor Brandon Scott
, Communications Director for Mayor Brandon Scott
, Chief of Staff for Mayor Levine Cava
Federal Affairs for Mayor Levine Cava
, First Assistant Attorney General of New Jersey
, Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General
, Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General'
POTUS finished speaking at 5.22pm after remarks that lasted 19 minutes. He is now taking media questions.
POTUS answered a few questions. As he departed, someone asked if it is time to end the filibuster. He replied: "I think it's time to pass the voting bill."
A travel/ photo lid was called at 6.05pm.
?From the White House
'Statement by Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Infrastructure Negotiations:
White House senior staff had two productive meetings today with the bipartisan group of Senators who have been negotiating about infrastructure. The group made progress towards an outline of a potential agreement, and the President has invited the group to come to the White House tomorrow to discuss this in person.'