Pool Reports by 
, 
Call time was moved up to 11:15 and Pool is now holding outside the Biden residence. No further information has been provided.
It is overcast and getting warmer. And the day is looking like a long one.
Pool picked up motorcade as it rolled out of Biden's street at 12:59 heading for unknown destination.
We have not seen POTUS so far today and have had no further information on activities.
Pool peeled off motorcade as it turned left into road marked with 'Fieldstone' signs at 13:07. Road leads to Fieldstone Golf Club.
Pool van is headed to hold somewhere less interesting.
White House passes the following along:
The President is golfing with:
Pool has returned from hold at nearby supermarket to hold in bus outside the gates to Fieldstone Golf Club.
The clouds have thinned and the temperature is a pleasant 89F.
As we wait for POTUS to finish up, this is what the rest of the schedule looks like:
Pool bus tagged on to end of POTUS motorcade as it exited gates of Fieldstone Golf Club at 16:35.
Pool van dropped off the motorcade just before it reached the residence at 16:44. Pool is returning to hotel to hold for departure and return to DC later this evening.
Pool hasn't seen POTUS yet today.
Till 18:30.
Pool is holding in van near residence.
We will shortly be en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base for Wilmington departure.
As a reminder, Pool will not be returning with POTUS. Marine One flies to Ellipse, where in-town Pool will be waiting.
Pool van picked up POTUS motorcade at 20:05 as it left street from Biden residence.
Rolling for Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle county.
Motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 20:14.
Journey was uneventful, just a handful of bystanders watching the motorcade here and there along the route.
POTUS had already boarded Marine One. FLOTUS was in her tan raincoat as she boarded. Pool loading into Ospreys before Marine One wheels up. Handing to in town pool
Maine One wheels up early at 20:21 - thanks to fellow poolers by window who could see.
That really is it from Delaware. Thanks to the rest of the Pool.
Out
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening from the White House. Your pooler was tested and pool has gathered for POTUS arrival. It's 9 pm.
Per travel pool, Marine One was wheels up early in Delaware.
POTUS arrived at 9:17 pm. He stepped off at 9:19 pm followed closely by the First Lady. POTUS went straight to motorcade and didn't appear to hear a shouted comment from someone in the pool (I believe it was about Father's Day).
Motorcade took off at 9:21pm.
Per White House:
Returning to the White House with the President and the First Lady:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Michael Gwin, Director of Rapid Response
That's all from me for tonight. Hope everyone has a good rest of their Sunday and happy Father's Day,
?Lid called at 9:22pm.