Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning on what's looking like an extremely hot Wednesday at the White House. Pool has been tested and is gathering ahead of Vice President Kamala Harris' virtual remarks during the "Official Opening Ceremony" at the Generation Equality Forum, scheduled to begin at 9:35am ET.
Harris will speak in the South Court Auditorium, and you can follow along live via the WH's stream:
Pool will send along any relevant color once we're in the room.
Passing along from VP's office:
Today at 9:35 AM, Vice President Kamala Harris will lead the U.S. Delegation to the Generation Equality Forum in Paris and provide virtual, live opening remarks. Her remarks will be livestreamed on WhiteHouse.gov/Live.
During her remarks, the Vice President will restate the United States' commitment to gender equality. She will also make the case about how gender equality is tied to democracy. She believes democracies are strongest when everyone participates, and suffer when people are left out. The Vice President will urge world leaders to fight for gender equality, which will create more economic opportunities and lift communities around the world.
The GEF provides an opportunity for governments, multilateral organizations, and civil society to make concrete commitments, mobilize resources, and generate political will toward achieving the vision of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action, the Sustainable Development Goals, and broader gender equality objectives during the UN's Decade of Action (2020-2030).
Following the Vice President's remarks, the Administration will announce several robust deliverables associated with our participation in the GEF in three areas: gender-based violence, economic justice, and sexual and reproductive health and rights.


[…]
Around the world, democracy is in peril.
[…]
As we witnessed at the G-7 Summit just weeks ago, world leaders are uniting against the threat of autocracy.
World leaders are uniting behind the principles of democracy.
I believe, resolutely, that if we want to strengthen democracy, we must fight for gender equality.
[…]
Because here is the truth: Democracy is strongest when everyone participates—and it is weaker when people are left out.
[…]
So, I know, without doubt: Gender equality strengthens democracy.
[…]
Pool sat down at 9:28am. The stage is adorned with Generation Equality signage and 2 large screens streaming the event participants in Paris at the forum. French President Emanuel Macron is currently showing on the screen — VP's staff says he will intro Harris ahead of her remarks.
A reminder that you can follow along here:
Passing along from the WH…
1. Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic
2. Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations
3. Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive Director of UN Women
4. Shantel Marekera, Founder of the "Little Dreamers Foundation" in Zimbabwe
5. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of Mexico - VIRTUAL
6. Kamala Harris, Vice President of the United States - VIRTUAL
7. Ursula Von der Leyen, President of the European Commission - VIRTUAL
8. Charles Michel, President of the European Council - VIRTUAL
The program officially began at 9:50am ET. For those at home, VP will speak after Mexican President AMLO
You can follow along here:
VP stepped onstage at 10:25am and began speaking at 10:26am.
You can follow along here:
VP wrapped her remarks at 10:32am. One note… the program producers changed the speaking order, adding one individual into the lineup ahead of VP. AMLO was bumped to the a lot after Harris
The scene:
BRIEF HIGHLIGHTS
"Who gets hurt when democracies fall, when democracies falter? … Women and girls"
"As we move forward, I believe that if we want to strengthen democracy, we must fight for gender equality. Democracy is strongest when everyone participates and it is weaker when people are left out. We have seen this in the United States"
"I know without doubt that gender equality strengthens democracy"
To the young leaders attending the forum: "I remain hopeful and optimistic… remember to use the tools of democracy, whether that is the freedom of speech or the freedom to vote. And if you do not yet have those freedoms, fight for them and we will fight with you."
"Do not forget the power of your own story."
Pool is preparing to head back to the briefing room. That's all from me, y'all. Enjoy the rest of this scorcher.