For generations, entrenched disparities in our economy and our society have made it harder for communities of color to get a fair shot at the American dream. The consequences of decades of disinvestment in America's physical infrastructure have fallen most heavily on communities of color, while the impacts of pollution and the climate crisis disproportionately threaten the lives and livelihoods of Americans of color. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will address challenges that impact communities of color across the country and inhibit their economic opportunity and public health.
In some cities, households of color are twice as likely to take public transportation. One study found that a metropolitan area's 10 percent increase in transit seats or rail service miles per capita is associated with up to $1.8 billion per year in increased wages. The Framework's historic investment in public transit – the largest federal investment in history – will reduce commute times and create more economic opportunities in communities of color.
The Framework will also address the stark digital divide in this country: Black families are 9% less likely to have high-speed internet than their white peers, and Latino Americans are 15% less likely. About 35% of individuals living on Tribal lands lack access to broadband service. In addition to achieving President Biden's goal of connecting every American to reliable high-speed internet, the Framework will also drive down prices for internet service and close the digital divide by making broadband more affordable, including in low-income communities and communities of color.
Communities of color have been disproportionally impacted by climate change, environmental pollution, and lead pipes and service lines. The Framework makes the largest investment in addressing legacy pollution in American history, a cleanup effort that will create good-paying union jobs and advance environmental justice. And, it will eliminate lead pipes and service lines, delivering clean drinking water to up to ten million American families and more than 400,000 schools and child care facilities that currently don't have it, including in Tribal Nations and disadvantaged communities.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework: