Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House,
Today's Guidance called for an 11a.m. virtual gathering between POTUS, VPOTUS, Cabinet officials, Governors and others to discuss wildfires, droughts, preparedness, etc.
Event is running a bit late, in-house pool just got the call to gather at 11a.m. We'll keep you updated.
Remarks will be live-streamed at White House website, so pooler will not be sending notes on remarks.
Pool is currently gathered at South Court Auditorium where two long desks are set parallel to eachother where officials are seated. Will send full list shortly
POTUS and VPOTUS entered at 11:09am.
POTUS went around shaking hands with those on hand.
POTUS spoke to governor and private sector officials who were displayed on a large screen at the center of the stage.
Passing along from WH Press Office:
Deb Haaland, Secretary of the Interior
Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture
Jennifer Granholm, Secretary of Energy
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security
Michael Regan, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of Defense
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President and National Climate Advisor
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security
Kate Brown, Governor of Oregon
Spencer Cox, Governor of Utah
Mark Gordon, Governor of Wyoming
Jay Inslee, Governor of Washington
Michelle Lujan Grisham, Governor of New Mexico
Gavin Newsom, Governor of California
Jared Polis, Governor of Colorado
Steve Sisolak, Governor of Nevada
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director for Intergovernmental Affairs
Caitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President and NSC Senior Director for Resilience and Response
Deanne Criswell, Administrator of FEMA
Rick Spinrad, Administrator of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Shalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Vicki Christiansen, Chief of the U. S. Forest Service
John Hairston, CEO of Bonneville Power Marketing Administration
Pedro Pizarro, President and CEO of Edison International
Maria Pope, President and CEO of Portland General Electric, Chair of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) CEO Wildfire Task Force, and Co-chair of the Electric Subsector Coordinating Council (ESCC) Wildfire Working Group
After short remarks from Govs. Brown and Newsome, pool was escorted out at 11:37am for officials to continue a closed door session.
Some color from the room:
Vilsak, Mayorkas, Regan, Hicks, Sherwood-Randal, Klain were all taking notes as the governors spoke.
COS Ron Klain may not have been on the earlier list sent out, but he was seated with the group on stage.
Lunch Lid until 12:45p.m.
Enjoy!
?Two minute warning called at 1:21pm
Also flagging updated advisory that was sent out with 2 new additions >>
Pool is still awaiting word on the new start time for bill signing ceremony that was originally scheduled for 4:15p.m.
We'll let you know as soon as we're called to gather...
Pool just called to gather for bill signing event...
Event will be livestreamed on WH website >> 
Pool will send along any color that may not be viewable on video
Pool is gathered at South Court Auditorium.
Speaker Pelosi seated in front row
Pic on Twitter: 
?2 minute warning called at 5:35pm
POTUS entered South Court Auditorium Stage at 5:37pm.
Pool escorted out at 5:45pm
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions about Afghanistan and Rumsfield
He invited lawmakers up to stage in groups. Here are some names he read, will endeavor to get complete list.
Reps:
Frank Pallone
Scott Peters
Connor Lamb
Debbie Dingel
Lizzie Fletcher
Lisa Blunt Rochester
Peter Meijer
Maxine Waters
Travel photo lid called at 5:51pm.
Be well & stay hydrated,
Laura