Yesterday, MSNBC aired a special for Pride Month spotlighting historic LGBTQ+ Americans serving across the Biden-Harris Administration, including:
Hosted by host of MSNBC's "The Sunday Show" and Washington Post columnist Jonathan Capehart, the special showcased the groundbreaking leaders coming out stories, advice to young LGBTQ+ people, and experiences in public service. The leaders spoke to the historic and unprecedented accomplishments of the Biden-Harris Administration for the LGBTQ+ community, including forming a diverse Administration that includes 14% of people who identify as LGBTQ+, executive orders that strengthen protections for LGBTQ+ at home and abroad, and more.
: Jonathan Capehart asked Pete Buttigieg, the first LGBTQ person to be confirmed by the Senate to a Cabinet-level position, what he would want his younger self to know. Secretary Buttigieg responded: "There's nothing wrong with you, just hang in there." He added: "I want to make sure 13-year old whoever you are out there knows to hang in there. Not to say it will be easy. But there's a lot of people rooting for you, including the president and people like me."
 Karine Jean-Pierre and Pili Tobar, the first out members of a White House press and communications teams, explain to Jonathan Capehart the importance of having LGBTQ+ voices "around the table" and how the Biden administration is making sure those voices are part of every policy conversation, not just LGBTQ-specific ones.
She tells Jonathan Capehart that "transgender youth are vulnerable" and "need to be supported and advocated for."
He tells Jonathan Capehart that there is "important symbolism and meaning in having someone like me speaking on behalf of his government."
: Reggie Greer, the senior White House advisor on LGBTQ+ engagement, explains the myriad ways in which the Biden White House is working to help the LGBTQ+ community. He also introduces Jonathan Capehart to out members of the administration working behind the scenes to advance equality.