Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool is gathering at the stakeout location before the VP's meeting with the National Black Caucus of State Legislators in her ceremonial office. There is only a pool spray at the top, but I'll share as many tidbits as I can.
On Background from a WH Official:
The Vice President will be meeting with leaders from the National Black Caucus of State Legislators to discuss the Administration's work on a range of issues. This includes voting rights efforts in states across the country, the Administration's work on COVID-19 and economic recovery, and the Administration's historic work in nominating diverse federal judges, including an upcoming nomination of the first Black woman to the United States Supreme Court.
:
The VP addressed Russian aggression toward Ukraine and POTUS' Supreme Court nomination process.
On Russia-Ukraine:
"On the issue of Ukraine, as you know, we have imposed significant costs in response to Russia's reinvasion of Ukraine and we are working closely with our allies and our partners in that regard. The threat of a full-scale attack on Ukraine remains and so we will remain vigilant and watching what is happening there and in close coordination with our allies and our partners around the world."
On SCOTUS:
"On the issue of the Supreme Court of the United States, the president of the United States will announce soon a most eminently qualified, extraordinary lawyer and jurist who will have a record of excellence and will happen to be a black woman to be the next justice on the United States Supreme Court. And without any question, she will be the first but not the last."
Pool was ushered in at 5pm.
The VP, dressed in a grey suit, black top, and pearls, sat at the head of the table. She started her remarks by thanking National Black Caucus of State Legislators President Billy Mitchell and president-elect Laura Hall for their "extraordinary work... at very difficult times."
The VP referred to the "probably unprecedented fight" to preserve and protect voting rights from the "assault" on ballot access "unencumbered."
"It is our collective responsibility to do everything we can to ensure that those laws are not passed and that we speak using the full voice given to us through the bully pulpit we have."
She expressed disappointment with Congress' failure to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.
"We are not going to give up because we fully realize that if we are to comprehensively address this issue we need federal legislation. That being said, there is still work to do at the state level and that is where your leadership kicks in a very fundamental, in a very important way."
A photo of the set-up is here: 
An Otter of her remarks can be found here: 
Pool was ushered out at 5.06pm.