Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House. President Biden just announced he will give remarks on his nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court, but we do not yet know what time that will be. The only thing currently on the schedule is a 2pm press briefing with Jen Psaki.
An early lunch lid was called until 1:30pm.
Also note that Biden will deliver remarks at 2pm and Jen Psaki's press briefing was moved to 3pm.
From the White House: President Biden held a secure call with President Zelenskyy today from 1152 EST to 1232 EST.
We're gathering in advance of Biden's address, which is scheduled to start at 2pm.
We just got the two minute warning for President Biden's supreme court remarks to begin at the White House cross hall.
Biden's remarks will be broadcast.
In attendance for the President's nomination of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to serve as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court:
The Vice President
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
The Jackson Family
Dr. Patrick Jackson, husband of Judge Jackson
Leila Jackson, daughter of Judge Jackson
Administration Officials
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Dana Remus, Assistant to the President & White House Counsel
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President, Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liaison
Jen Klein, Deputy Assistant to the President & Co-Chair & Executive Director of the White House Gender Policy Council
Julie Mason, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Second Gentleman
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Paige Herwig, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Counsel to the President
Josh Hsu, Special Assistant to the President & Counsel to the Vice President
Erin Wilson, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Kristine Lucius, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Office of the Vice President
Minyon Moore, Nomination Advisor for Engagement
Doug Jones, Nomination Advisor for Legislative Affairs
Aditi Hardikar, Senior Advisor to the White House Counsel
Ben LaBolt, Nomination Advisor for Communications
We just received the two minute warning for Jen Psaki's press briefing, which was originally scheduled for 3pm. The briefing will be broadcast live.
Pool is gathering to head to the south lawn, where the president and first lady are scheduled to depart at 5:30 to New Castle, Delaware.
The president and first lady boarded Marine One without taking questions from reporters. Wheels up at 5:33pm.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
That's it for me. Passing off to out-of-town pool for further updates. Have a good weekend.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello from New Castle, Delaware, where I shall be your out-of-town pooler this weekend.
Marine One touched down here in the fading light of dusk at 6:22p.m.
The President and First Lady alighted at 6:27 p..m. and proceeded to the car.
Motorcade began rolling 6:28 p.m.
Motorcade arrived at the Biden family residence at approximately 6:40 p.m. without incident.
Darkness has fallen and so too, at 6:41 p.m., has a travel/photo lid.