The President is announcing an historic agreement between the Department of Justice and the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) to make sure that large ocean freight companies cannot take advantage of U.S. businesses and consumers. Right now, three global alliances, made up entirely of foreign companies, control almost all of ocean freight shipping, giving them power to raise prices for American businesses and consumers, while threatening our national security and economic competitiveness.
Most traded goods—everything from the housewares you buy online to the agricultural products American farmers market overseas—are transported by ocean freight companies. 
 This consolidation happened rapidly over the last decade. From 1996 to 2011, the leading three alliances operated only about 
% of global container shipping. Significant consolidation occurred in the years running up to the Pandemic.
Since the beginning of the pandemic, these ocean carrier companies have been dramatically increasing shipping costs through rate increases and fees. 
 Oftentimes cargo owners are charged fees—known as "detention and demurrage" fees—even when they can't get access to their containers to move them. The FMC 
 that from July to September of 2021, eight of the largest carriers charged customers fees totaling $2.2 billion—a 50% increase on the previous three-month period.
These historically large shipping price increases translate into higher prices for American consumers. Based on research by the 
and the 
, these shipping cost increases are expected to contribute to approximately a 1% increase in consumer prices over the next year.
Meanwhile, the ocean carrier companies are experiencing elevated profits and soaring profit margins. Estimates suggest that the container shipping industry made a record 
 billion in profits in 2021, a 
 from the previous year and five times what it made over the 
. Profit margins have increased by even larger amounts. 
:
Beyond price increases, several specific business practices of many large ocean carrier companies are hurting American businesses and farmers. For example, because of their market power, these alliances are able to cancel or change bookings and impose additional fees without notice. These unpredictable practices undermine American business' ability to deliver orders on time. 
, ocean carriers are effectively 
 to take American exports altogether, preferring to 
 with an empty ship to make a quick turnaround rather than transport American exporters' cargo or dock at American ports. This is especially difficult to our farmers, who have spent decades building relationships internationally, only to find that now they can't transport their agricultural products overseas with any reliability or predictability.
The carriers have also continued to pursue practices that directly contribute to port congestion, such as imposing "box rules" that require truckers to use only certain trailers to haul their containers—thus forcing truckers to wait for the "right" kind of trailer to become available. That leads to lower pay and longer wait times for our nation's truck drivers, who get paid per box, and allows the ocean carriers to generate even higher detention and demurrage fees.
A century ago, in the original Ocean Shipping Act, Congress provided for utility-style regulation of ocean carriers, paired with antitrust immunity for ocean carrier alliance agreements only when the alliance was in the "public interest." But Congress 
 the industry—expanding the antitrust immunity while weakening ocean carriers' obligations to publicly disclose prices and fees and treat businesses and their customers fairly. That is how we have arrived at the point where three alliances can dominate the market for ocean shipping and squeeze American businesses and consumers.
This initiative grew out of the "whole of government" approach to competition established by the President's July Executive Order on Promoting Competition. The FMC and the DOJ are both part of the White House Competition Council established by the Order. Their partnership builds on an information-sharing Memorandum of Understanding that the agencies 
.
The Administration, led by Port Envoy John Porcari, has also worked with the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to develop new fees on ocean carrier companies for letting cargo sit on the docks for over nine days. These long-dwelling import containers had been causing delays in getting goods to shelves while increasing port congestion. Since the announcement of the proposed fee, the number of long-dwelling containers on the docks has fallen more than 70 percent. Building on the success of the proposed carrier fee, the Administration is working with the ports on charging the carriers for long-dwelling empty containers that have been clogging the docks. There has been a more than 25 percent drop in the number of empty containers on the docks at the Port of Los Angeles since that announcement.
The need for reform to our ocean freight transportation system to improve fluidity and fairness, particularly for our agricultural exporters, was underscored last week in reports released by the 
 and 
 as part of the Administration's six supply chain 
 published on the one-year anniversary of the President's supply chain executive order.