Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Monday morning from Wilmington, Del., where it is 32 degrees and sunny.
Your pool has been COVID-tested and has loaded into the van.
As you know from the official WH guidance, the President is scheduled to depart DANG en route to Washington at 8:55 a.m.
There are no additions or alterations to that plan at this point.
Pool van is moving at 7:30 a.m.
The pool has joined the presidential motorcade close to the Biden family residence.
We are rolling, presumably bound for DANG, at 8:44 a.m.
After an incident-free motorcade to DANG, the President and First Lady boarded Marine One at 8:54 a.m.
Marine One lifted into clear skies at 8:57 a.m
It’s been a pleasure being your Out-of-Town pooler for this weekend-and-a-bit.
Handing off to In-Town Pool.
Your pooler is not quite done yet, it turns out.
Passing this along mid-air aboard an Osprey, so apologies if there is any delay in it landing in your inbox.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One to the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs at the NSC
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. Your pooler has been COVID tested and pool is gathering ahead of POTUS’s arrival.
No changes to the schedule, copied below, as of now:
[RSVP here by 9:00 AM]
M1 touched down at 9:51am and pool, originally gathered by the South Portico, scrambled towards the Oval Office end of the ropes.
POTUS exited M1 at 9:54am and did not look at the press (from your pooler’s vantage) shouting questions as he walked into the Oval Office. POTUS entered the Oval Office at 9:55am.
We have a lunch lid until 1:30pm.
From a White House official:
President Biden’s call with Allies and partners to discuss Russia’s unprovoked war on Ukraine began at 11:32 EST.
Leaders joining President Biden on the call: Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada, European Commission President von der Leyen, European Council President Michel, President Macron of France, Chancellor Scholz of Germany, Prime Minister Draghi of Italy, Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg, President Duda of Poland, President Iohannis of Romania, and Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom.
From a White House official:
President Biden’s secure call with Allies and partners concluded at 12:54 EST.
Pool and pre-credentialed media are gathering as of 1:40pm for the Black History Month celebration. Details from the day's guidance copied below:
This will be live-streamed on the White House website (
) so I will not provide a transcript.
Still waiting for event to begin.
Background from the WH.
Speaking program:
The First Lady
The Vice President
Cateo Hilton, student and Junior Mentor of the Life Pieces to Masterpieces program in DC
The President
Seated on the stage:
Chair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic Advisers
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Mission to the United Nations
Acting Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget
Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Secretary Marcia Fudge, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Secretary Lloyd Austin, Department of Defense
The Vice President
Cateo Hilton, student and Junior Mentor of the Life Pieces to Masterpieces program in DC
The President
In the audience are approximately 150 guests, including members of the Congressional Black Caucus, State and local elected officials, Civil Rights leaders, Divine Nine Presidents, and other community leaders.
Some details as press waited for the event to start: Pool entered the East Room at 1:44pm. Loud music played and a crowd of people were spread throughout the room, some seated, others chatting and taking pictures. The room naturally got busier as we got closer to 2pm.
The podium is set up in one corner of the stage next to a red sign that says "Black History Month 2022." Nine chairs are located at the other end of the stage.
FLOTUS was spotted mingling in the crowd a little after 2pm, wearing a polka-dotted dress and a white mask with a flower on the side.
A man over the loudspeaker asked attendants to take their seats at 2:14pm. The room quieted down a few minutes later, and six of the individuals with designated seats on stage entered at 2:20pm to a round of applause.
We did not get any official two-minute warning. The VP and Second Gentleman entered the room at 2:22pm, also to a round of applause and some cheers.
POTUS and FLOTUS entered at 2:23pm (FLOTUS presumably left the room after mingling). They received cheers and applause as well.
Pool has been told that the briefing will begin when this event ends (so, soon). Remarks wrapped up at 2:59pm.
POTUS left at 3pm and responded to one question.
Q: Should Americans be worried about nuclear war?
Biden: "No"
Some details on the event:
FLOTUS said this is the "very first in person" Black History Month WH celebration. As she spoke, POTUS waved at a little boy in the front row and gave him a thumbs up.
FLOTUS called VP "a partner to Joe, especially on issues" like voting rights. She slipped up at the end, introducing the VP as "The president of the — the Vice President!" This prompted laughs in the crowd (and POTUS), to which FLOTUS told the crowd it was done "to make you laugh."
VP spoke next, calling the Congressional Black Caucus the "conscious … of our country." She mentioned Ukraine, saying "their bravery is a reminder … that justice, equality and freedom must never be taken for granted by any of us."
"We are clear: Black history is American history," VP said. She received a standing ovation upon mentioning POTUS"s SCOTUS pick. She called for "a swift confirmation, now."
Cateo Hilton, student and Junior Mentor of the Life Pieces to Masterpieces program in DC, spoke third. He noted that Black History Month "also celebrates the history we continue to make."
Hilton said he"s going to Delaware State in a few months, prompting another standing ovation. One person in the crowd yelled, "say it again!" He said he knows POTUS will be "happy to hear about" that.
POTUS rounded out the speeches, taking the podium at 2:42pm. He received a standing ovation and cheers.
"I keep talking about Delaware State," POTUS said, speaking in Hilton"s direction as he launched into a brief story about his connection there.
POTUS introduced those seated on the stage. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Mission to the United Nations, received a standing ovation.
"My name is Joe Biden, I"m Jill Biden"s husband," he said, prompting laughs in the crowd.
"Black History Month is more than a celebration. It"s a powerful reminder that black history is American history…" POTUS said.
POTUS touted his SCOTUS pick as well as the American Rescue Plan. He called for Congress to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act (another standing ovation).
Upon concluding his speech at 2:59pm, POTUS put his mask back on. Pool ushered out at 3:02pm.
Per WH:
Today at the BHM event at the White House, the First Lady wore a mask with a sunflower, the national flower of Ukraine, to show support for the Ukrainian people.
Two-minute warning for briefing issued at 3:29pm.
Briefing wrapped up at 4:24pm, with multiple reporters shouting additional questions.
We have a lid at 4:54pm, have a great rest of your Monday.