Pool Reports by 
, 
POTUS, exiting the South Portico at 9:15, stopped to take questions from reporters about Ukraine.
POTUS said the threat of invasion is "very high." Russia is moving troops and may be engaged in a false flag operation, POTUS said
Q: Do you think Russia will go through with it?
POTUS: "Yes, I do. Not now….in a manner of several days."
Asked if he believes a diplomatic resolution is still possible, POTUS said "yes."
POTUS said he was awaiting a response to his letter to Putin.
POTUS moments later boarded Marine One, which lifted at 9:22.
From the White House:
Traveling on Marine One with the President:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Cara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President& Senior Director for Defense, NSC
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Full quotes from Q&A with POTUS before boarding Marine One:
POTUS: "It's very high. They have not moved any of their troops out. They've moved more troops in, number one. Number two, we have reason to believe they are engaged in a false flag operation. Every indication we have is they're prepared to go into Ukraine to attack Ukraine, number one."
"Number two, I've been waiting for a response from Putin to my letter, my response to him. [Sentence here is inaudible in the roar of Marine One. POTUS appears to say something about an embassy receiving a letter.] They're faxing it here — not faxing it. They're just sending it here. I have not read it yet. I cannot comment on it."
POTUS: "Yes. My sense is that it will happen within the next several days."
POTUS: "Yes there is. [inaudible] That's why I asked Senator — Senator! [Mocking his own error] — Secretary Blinken to go to the United Nations to make his statement today. He'll lay out what that path is. I laid out a path to Putin as well, I think Sunday. [Note: They actually talked on Saturday.] But there is a path. There is a way through this.
POTUS: I"m not calling — I have no plans to call Putin.
---
Handing things off to out of town pooler.
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 2:47.
POTUS, wearing a dark suit and blue tie, emerged moments later and proceeded to the Oval Office, not the South Portico (much to the dismay of reporters).
POTUS entered the Oval Office at 2:50 with engaging in Q&A with reporters.
The White House called a travel-photo lid at 3:02.
Apologies for a typo in the previous report.
POTUS entered the Oval Office at 2:50 *without* engaging in Q&A with reporters.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. I'll be your travel pooler for President Biden's trip to Ohio.
The weather here is overcast, but pleasant at 54 degrees. It's rather windy on the tarmac.
Marine One landed at 9:30 a.m.
President Biden stepped out of Marine One at 9:34 a.m.
He briefly chatted on the tarmac with the greeter.
He waved at pool but didn't stop to answer questions about a potential Russian invasion of Ukraine, calling Putin or interviewing SCOTUS candidates.
He boarded AF1 at 9:35 a.m.
We'll be wheels up shortly.
Air Force One was wheels up at 9:45 a.m.
We touched down in Cleveland at 10:43 a.m.
There are patches of snow on the ground. It's 47 degrees and breezy.
President Biden stepped off AF1 at 10:57 a.m.
He hugged the congresswoman and greeted the mayor. Bibb and Kaptur embraced as they spoke with POTUS. They spent several minutes chatting with EPA head Regan and other staff.
The president got in the beast at 10:58 a.m. He took no questions.
From the WH:
Upon arrival at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, the President will be greeted by:
Mayor Justin Bibb (Cleveland)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for approximately 30 minutes, with EPA Administrator Michael Regan making remarks and taking two questions at the top.
My colleagues inform me it played out, but please feel free to reach out if you have questions.
She answered a number of questions on the Ukraine-Russia situation.
And here's the list of greeters/travelers:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President was greeted by Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
Traveling with the President to Cleveland, Ohio:
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan
Brenda Mallory, Chair, Council on Environmental Quality
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Justin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President and House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Cara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President& Senior Director for Defense, NSC
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Michael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Staff Secretary
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Gabe Amo, Special Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs
The president's motorcade departed the tarmac at 11 a.m.
The early part of the drive was on highways but as we got to more residential sections pockets of people were out waving and holding up cell phones. One man gave a cheers with his coffee, another had a thumbs up.
Pooler counted two men giving us the finger. There was at least one "Let's Go Brandon" sign. A number of signs were illegible.
We're pulling into the Shipyards at 11:37 a.m.
More TK.
The pool did not see President Biden enter the Shipyards.
The program began at 11:54 a.m. with remarks from Lorain's Mayor Jack Bradley.
Rep. Marcy Kaptur began speaking at 11:59 a.m.
The president's speech should start shortly.
Here's a live link to the speech: 
I'll send along color.
There are about 80 people in the audience in the converted warehouse that sits along the Black River, just inland of Lake Erie. Signage for today's event touts "Great Lakes Restoration" and the "Bipartisan Infrastructure Law." Attendees, press and staff are wearing masks.
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Mayor Jack Bradley (Lorain)
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Mayor Justin Bibb (Cleveland)
Matt Lundy, Lorain County Commissioner
Ohio State Senator Kenny Yuko
Ohio State Representative Joseph Miller
Speaking Pre-Program:
Mayor Jack Bradley (Lorain)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
More TK
EPA Administrator Michael Regan also warmed up the crowd. He started speaking at 12:10 p.m.
Regan reminded the crowd that the Black River was once nicknamed the "river of fish tumors."
Biden entered at 12:15 p.m.
It seems your pooler overestimated the crowd size as the White House sends along: "In attendance for the President's remarks are approximately 60 invited guests including members of Congress, local elected officials, and labor leaders."
The president received cheers and applause when he dropped the "1 billion" figure for Great Lakes Restoration.
Biden briefly struggled to pronounce the "Maumee" river, asking the crowd for an assist. "I can say Toledo," he joked.
He also gave a hat tip to the state's Republican Sen. Rob Portman. "By the way I grew up in a Senate that really was bipartisan. Senator Portman played an important role in this legislation," the president said.
At the top he talked about how it was a homecoming of sorts for his HUD Director Marcia Fudge, who previously represented parts of Cleveland in Congress. He mentioned his own love of going home to Delaware.
He wrapped at 12:30 p.m.
Biden said he was making a swift exit due to weather en route back to Washington "and there's a little thing going on in Europe right now."
First quick correction: the president wrapped his remarks at 12:35 p.m., not 12:30 p.m., your pooler mistyped.
The motorcade pulled out of the Shipyards at 12:43 p.m. The pool did not have eyes on President Biden getting into the Beast.
En route back to the Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, co-pooler Sean Sullivan spotted an individual holding up a sign that said, "Unmask U.S. Kids." A trio of protesters were gathered on one corner shouting at the motorcade. Two were flipping us the bird and one man held up a "Don't Tread On Me" flag. Others waved and had phones out.
The weather does look ominous.
The motorcade pulled up to AF1 at 1:21 p.m.
He boarded AF1 at 1:23 p.m.
Wheels up shortly.
Air Force One took off at 1:33 p.m.
We were wheels down at JBA at 2:23 p.m. It is now 66 degrees!
Biden walked off AF1 at 2:32 p.m. He saluted and didn't turn toward pool. Several questions about Russia-Ukraine were shouted.
He walked on Marine One at 2:33 p.m.
Marine One lifted off at 2:38 p.m.
Handing it back over to your in-town pooler. Thanks again to WaPo's Sean Sullivan for assisting today.
Have a great day!
 
Pool Report below by 
, 
Good evening. I'll be your Friday White House pooler but am but passing along a note from the WH about Biden's call tomorrow with Transatlantic leaders
From a White House official:
The President will speak with Transatlantic leaders on a phone call tomorrow afternoon about Russia's buildup of military troops on the border of Ukraine and our continued efforts to pursue deterrence and diplomacy.