Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello,
Good morning from the White House, where it's a cool 30 degrees. I'm your in-town print pool reporter today.
There are no changes to the president's schedule. This White House passes the following along regarding his remarks later today before the National Association of Counties:
"In the President's remarks to the National Association of Counties Legislative Conference, he will highlight the critical partnership between counties and the federal government as they work together across party lines to deliver critical support and services to the American people via the American Rescue Plan and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law."
Here's the schedule for the rest of the day. Feel free to reach out with any questions.
From the White House:
President Biden's secure call with President Macron convened at 10:11 EST.
The White House calls a lunch lid until noon EST.
From the White House:
President Biden's secure call with French President Macron was completed at 11:00 EST.
A slight adjustment to Biden's schedule, according to the White House.
The President's remarks at the National Association of Counties 2022 Legislative Conference will take place at 
.
The remarks were previously scheduled for 2 p.m.
Rolling out of the White House at 12:41 pm EST headed to the Washington Hilton.
Your pool reporter did not lay eyes on Biden entering the beast.
Correction: I got ahead of myself with the last pool report.
We remain at the WH south lawn as of 12:55pm, awaiting POTUS to exit the WH.
Flagging the WH's earlier announcement: Biden will now address the situation in Ukraine during remarks from the WH East Room at 3:30 pm.
President Biden left the WH at 1 pm and entered the beast.
We rolled out of the WH at 1:01 pm en route to the Washington Hilton.
We are rolling.
The motorcade arrived at the Washington Hilton at 1:06 pm after an uneventful 5-minute drive. Some people along the streets took photos from their phones.
Your pooler took a seat inside the Washington Hilton at 1:10 pm.
I did not see Biden leave the motorcade to go inside the hotel. We are awaiting Biden to come to the stage inside a large convention room at the hotel for his remarks.
Behind the stage is a backdrop that says, "Stronger Counties. Stronger America."
Two-minute warning for President Biden's remarks before the National Association of Counties.
President Biden arrived on stage at 1:19. p.m. to applause among the few hundred in attendance inside the Hilton ballroom.
He was introduced by Commissioner Larry Johnson, President of National Association of Counties, who praised elements of Biden's Infrastructure law.
POTUS began speaking at 1:21 p.m.
"I ran for the Senate because it was too damn hard to be a councilman," Biden said, drawing laughs in the crowd as he turned to one of his favorite jokes he often makes before local officials.
You can watch Biden's speech at all the regular places including 
. I will not be transcribing the speech as a result.
Biden ended his 27-minute speech at 1:48 p.m. ET.
There appeared to be a few hundred in attendance inside the hotel's ballroom, seemingly making the event one of the largest that POTUS has addressed since the rise of the omicron variant. The vast majority in the crowd wore face masks as Biden spoke.
"I want to make sure the money goes straight to the counties," Biden said at one point, drawing the loudest applause in the speech. It was a reference to the $350 billion in direct aid for city and state governments provided in Biden's American Rescue Plan that Congress passed last year. "I urge all of you to use the flexibility of that law and spend those funds widely."
POTUS used much of his remarks to tout ways counties are using both rescue funds and federal infrastructure dollars. He also made an emotional appeal for his BBB proposal to reduce prescription drug prices, talked about his Cancer Moonshot initiative and addressed rising inflation. "I'm going to work like the devil to bring gas prices down," he said.
After Biden finished his speech, the pool was rushed out of the ballroom.
From the White House:
The President participated in a photoline with:
Larry Johnson, Commissioner, DeKalb County, GA, National Association of Counties President
Denise Winfrey, Board Member, Will County, IL, National Association of Counties First Vice President
Mary Jo McGuire, Commissioner, Ramsey County, MN, National Association of Counties Second Vice President
Gary Moore, Judge-Executive, Boone County, KY, National Association of Counties, Immediate Past President
Joe Briggs, Commissioner, Cascade County, MT
Ron Berry, Commissioner, Roane County, TN
Mark Poloncarz, County Executive, Erie County, NY
Toni Preckwinkle, Board President, Cook County, IL
John O'Grady, Commissioner, Franklin County, OH
Greg Puckett, Commissioner, Mercer County, WV
Phyllis Randall, Supervisor and Chair-at-Large, Loudon County, VA
James Gore, Supervisor, Sonoma County, CA
Matt Meyer, County Executive, New Castle County, DE
Mary Ann Borgeson, County Commissioner, Douglas County, NE
Matt Chase, Executive Director, National Association of Counties
Mark Ritacco, Director of Government Affairs, National Association of Counties
The motorcade pulled out of the Hilton at 1:53 pm. Your pooler did not see Biden enter the beast.
We are rolling back to the WH.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 1:57 pm after a short, uneventful drive through downtown Washington.
Biden walked into the Oval Office at 1:58 pm. He did not address reporters.
In a previous pool report, I made a typo in a quote from Biden's speech. It should have been "wisely," not "widely."
Correct quote: "I urge all of you to use the flexibility we built into that law and spend those funds wisely."
The pool gathered at the WH Palm Room doors at 3:15 pm.
The pool was escorted to the WH East Room at 3:24 p.m. ET. We are now awaiting POTUS to arrive.
The WH called a 2-minute warning for Biden's remarks at 3:26 pm.
Biden walked up to the lectern at the WH East Room at 3:29 p.m. and began his remarks on the Ukraine situation.
You can watch the speech from all the regular places.
Biden ended his remarks at 3:40 p.m. after about 11 minutes. Biden did not respond to questions shouted by reporters.
2-minute warning for WH press briefing announced at 4:15 p.m. ET
White House press secretary Jen Psaki started the press briefing at 4:17 p.m. You can watch at 
The White House press briefing ended at 5:03 pm. It lasted about 47 minutes.
WH calls at lid at 5:27 p.m.
With the travel/photo lid called at 5:27 pm, I'm heading out.
Let me know if you have any questions from the day!