Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon all — I'll be your pooler for two swearing-in ceremonies the vice president has this afternoon.
Your pool has been tested and is gathered as of 12:55 PM.
Guidance from the VP's schedule below:
At 
the Vice President will ceremonially swear in Cynthia Ann Telles to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica.
At 
the Vice President will ceremonially swear in Reta Jo Lewis to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
Let me know if questions!
Cynthia Telles and her family entered the ceremonial office at 1:24, observing the historic vice presidential desk on the south end of the room before the ambassador went back out. California Senator Alex Padilla and HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra also joined at 1:28, chatting next to the room's large conference table.
The VP and the ambassador entered from the north end of the ceremonial office at 1:39. The VP is wearing a black suit and black heels.
She swore in Ambassador Telles with the normal pledge as of 1:40.
"I believe we have a Senator here … we have the Secretary here … and we have the chairman Mr. Ruiz," the VP said.
All guests and family gathered for a photo with the VP. The VP asked Sec. Becerra how he was and patted him on the shoulder before walking out at 1:42 while family and guests stayed to mingle.
Behind them are four alternating flags, two U.S. flags and two blue and white flags with the design of the presidential seal.
Otter: 
On background from a White House Official:
Ambassador Cynthia Telles was confirmed by the Senate on Saturday, December 18, 2021, as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica. Vice President Harris will conduct her official ceremonial swearing in. Ambassador Telles is sworn in on a family bible.
She is joined by
Additional guests of Ambassador Telles:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Health and Human Services
Senator Alex Padilla, CA
Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-36)