Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your in-town pooler today. POTUS has no public events on his schedule. Pool call time remains 12 pm.
Pool is now gathering at the Palm Room Doors.
Motorcade rolling at 1223 pm.
Pooler saw POTUS exit residence and enter vehicle at 1222.
Motorcade arrived at 1226 at The Hamilton. Pooler did not see POTUS. A few onlookers stopped to watch the motorcade.
Per the WH, "The President is having lunch with Finnegan Biden, Naomi Biden, and Peter Neal."
Pool has been holding outside The Hamilton since 1226. The smell of what seems to be burgers is wafting outside.
POTUS departed The Hamilton at 126 and waved to onlookers. Made a brief remark that was not audible to pooler. Seeking better audio.
Motorcade rolling at 127.
Motorcade arrived back at WH at 129 and pooler briefly saw POTUS walk into residence right after.
At 132 pm, the WH called a lunch lid until 5 pm.
Following up on pool report #6, POTUS walked out of The Hamilton in aviator sunglasses and a dark face mask and waved to a cheering crowd nearby.
"What's the latest on Ukraine, Mr. President?" a reporter asked.
"Good to see you," POTUS said right after that.
Your pooler then asked POTUS if he still thought Russia was determined to attack Ukraine and invade.
POTUS did not acknowledge the question or respond to it.
The in-town travel pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors.
We're on the move again, rolling from the WH at 526 pm. Pooler saw POTUS exit the residence and enter vehicle at 525 pm.
Motorcade arrived at at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown at 538 pm. POTUS entered the church at 539.
Per WH, POTUS "is attending mass at Holy Trinity Catholic Church with Hallie Biden, Hunter Biden II, and a friend of Hunter's."
Motorcade was at a brief standstill near the Key Bridge around 534.
Pool is holding outside the church.
POTUS walked out of Holy Trinity Catholic Church at 626. He did not respond to a shouted question.
Motorcade rolling at 628.
Motorcade arrived back at WH at 636 pm. Pooler was not able to see POTUS exit his vehicle.
WH called a lid at 637. Have a great evening!
To be more specific regarding pool report #13, a travel/photo lid was was called by the WH at 637 pm. ?Have a great evening and enjoy the rest of your weekend.