Today, the Biden Administration 
 a slate of efforts from more than a dozen agencies and executive offices to incentivize clean manufacturing, reduce climate pollution and local air pollution, and create good-paying, union jobs.
Through $9.5 billion in funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the 
 will establish regional clean hydrogen hubs and invest in clean hydrogen innovation, manufacturing, and recycling initiatives. In support of the newly launched Buy Clean Task Force, the General Services Administration and the Department of Transportation will focus on procuring low-carbon concrete and other clean, American-made materials for federal construction projects. Other Administration actions will use trade policy to reward clean manufacturing of steel and aluminum, advance responsible deployment of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Sequestration technologies, and accelerate equitable innovation across the industrial sector.
A recent national survey from Data for Progress found overwhelming 
 – including 52 percent of Republicans – for these types of measures.
 
[Danielle Deiseroth, 2/15/22]
 
[David Shepardson, 2/15/22]
The White House on Tuesday announced a new task force to promote use of construction materials with lower lifecycle emissions as it works to speed U.S. government purchases of greener products
 
[Lisa Friedman, 2/15/22]
The Biden administration on Tuesday will set out a strategy for buying "clean," lower-emissions steel, cement, aluminum and other industrial materials for federal agencies and projects, part of its effort to reduce carbon emissions from industrial manufacturing. 
[Donald Judd, 2/15/22]
The White House will unveil new efforts to reduce emissions in the manufacturing sector Tuesday, including nearly $10 billion in Department of Energy funding from President Joe Biden's signature infrastructure law aimed at "clean hydrogen" manufacturing. 
and building on efforts already underway at the General Services Administration (GSA), which manages a nationwide federal real estate portfolio and oversees approximately $75 billion in annual contracts.
[Ben Adler, 2/15/22]
President Biden is launching a multi-pronged program to reduce industrial sector greenhouse gas emissions. 
 (Clean Hydrogen, also known as Green Hydrogen, is created using low-carbon energy sources and can be used as a replacement for natural gas in uses such as heating.)
[Rachel Frazin, 2/15/22]
A new fact sheet from the White House said it would aim to [promote green manufacturing and take on climate change contributions from the industrial sector] through a series of initiatives aimed at bolstering clean hydrogen energy and using the federal government's purchasing power to advance its climate goals, among other efforts. The Energy Department announced that it will take a step toward carrying out programs initiated by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law on clean hydrogen — which is when hydrogen energy is produced using clean energy — by issuing new requests for information from stakeholders … 