Today, during a White House event with Vice President Harris, Federal Communications Commission Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel, and Senior Advisor Mitch Landrieu, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing more than 10 million households are enrolled in the Affordable Connectivity Program, the nation’s largest ever broadband affordability program. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to removing barriers to high-speed, affordable internet access. Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, millions of families who previously could not get online or struggled to pay for this modern-day necessity are now connected.
The President and Vice President have made it a top priority to ensure all Americans have access to reliable, affordable, high-speed internet to learn, work, and participate in the 21st century economy. Broadband connectivity is vital for work, school, health care and more. But affordable broadband remains out of reach for too many, with one estimate showing almost one out of three internet users worried about paying their internet bills during the pandemic. President Biden, Vice President Harris, and the entire Administration are committed to changing this through implementation of the broadband provisions of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that address the affordability of internet service, a modern-day necessity.
The Affordable Connectivity Program is the nation’s largest broadband affordability program. Created through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, it is a $14.2 billion successor program to the Emergency Broadband Benefit. Low-income households are encouraged to apply to receive a discount of up to $30 per month toward internet service and up to $75 per month for eligible households on Tribal lands. Eligible households can also receive a one-time discount of up to $100 to purchase a laptop, desktop computer, or tablet from participating providers if the household contributes more than $10 and less than $50 toward the purchase price.
A household is eligible for the Affordable Connectivity Program if the household income is at or below 200% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines, or if a member of the household meets at least 
 of the criteria below:
The FCC is joining with ACP outreach partners to host ten local enrollment events in different areas of the country over the next month. These events will build program awareness and train grassroots navigators on ACP eligibility and the enrollment process. Event times and locations will be announced in the coming days. You can learn more about the Affordable Connectivity Program and sign up to be an outreach partner, by visiting 
. To find a list of participating providers in the program, please visit 
. To enroll for the Affordable Connectivity Program, eligible households should visit 
, or mail in an application, a household worksheet, and supporting documentation to ACP Support Center, PO Box 7081, London, KY 40742. More information on how to apply can be found at 
 or by calling (877) 384-2575.