Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. There are no changes to the president's schedule (below) and the first we are currently slated to see him is at 3:30. I will update if that changes.
Here is a fuller list, per an administration official, on who will be attending today's supply chain event virtually and in-person.
Attending the President's virtual event announcing progress on securing critical mineral supply chains, powering clean energy manufacturing, and creating good-paying jobs in the South Court Auditorium tomorrow:
Administration Officials (in-person):
Industry Participants (virtual):

 Community Participants (virtual):

 Labor Participants (virtual):

 State Officials (virtual):



[RSVP here by 10:00 AM]
Schedule has been updated.
Per an administration official.
Call time is now at 
. Remarks are now at 
Per an administration official: The Press Briefing will be at 2:30 PM with Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy NEC Director Daleep Singh.
Also, the gather time for POTUS 1:00 remarks is now 12:45 at the Palm Room Doors.
Which suggests the President will not be on time for his 1pm remarks.
From a WH official: “we are holding on gathering. Please wait for an update from us. Thank you.”
I will update when we head into the East Room.
No update to briefing schedule to share.
Remarks will be carried live so you're on your own for quotes.
POTUS's lectern is facing the room longways, about 20 feet from four rows of seated reporters and the camera riser.
Standing among the reporters are WH aides with microphones, suggesting the possibility of questions.
I will advise with a two minute warning, if we get one…
[
]
POTUS did not engage with shouted questions
So we appear to be on schedule.
[
]
You saw the supply chain event live and I suspect you caught the shouted questions, which were not answered.
Next on tap is Psaki/Singh briefing at 4:45
At the end, you may have heard Fox's Peter Doocy shout to the President if he "underestimated Putin"...Some members of the pool say they saw POTUS (rhetorically) ask the officials who were participating in the supply chain event if they also underestimated Putin.
Your pool did not see the president's reaction, but it may have been captured on the live feed.
Per a WH official: The press briefing will begin after the joint news conference between Secretary Blinken and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba.
[
]
[
]