The Day of Action coincides with the recent re-launch of the new and improved ChildTaxCredit.gov. The revamped website has several new features to help taxpayers file their taxes and access the remainder of the expanded Child Tax Credit, the full amount of the Child Tax Credit, and/or the Earned Income Tax Credit as tax filing season begins.
 These options include both virtual and in-person support in multiple languages. Many of the organizations who have answered the Administration's call to action are leveraging the new ChildTaxCredit.gov for assistance.
U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), and Reverend Raphael Warnock (D-Ga.) and U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) and Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.) will headline a press call on the Day of Action encouraging all Americans to file their taxes to access the Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit.
Hundreds of non-profits, community-based organizations, religious organizations, veterans' organizations, youth organizations, disability organizations, seniors' organizations, health and medical organizations, foster care organizations, and more made commitments to take a wide range of actions, today and throughout the tax filing seasons.
During tax filing season, state and local leaders will take action on CTC/EITC enrollment, including:
Agencies across the federal government have heeded the call to reach as many families as possible.
Dozens of philanthropic investors have made significant investments to help families access tax relief in 2022, coordinated by the CTC and EITC funders networks. 
more than $25 million in new investments into communities to support CTC and EITC. Investments area include:
The American Rescue Plan expanded the Earned Income Tax Credit to include more people, more families, and more money by nearly tripling the credit for workers without dependent children and including younger (19-24) and older workers (65+) who were previously excluded.
 
 