News outlets across the state of Tennessee are reporting on President Biden and Tritium CEO Jane Hunter's announcement that the company will break ground on its first U.S. electric vehicle charger manufacturing facility in Lebanon, Tennessee and create 500 jobs.
Tritium is the latest in a series of major companies announcing investments in U.S. manufacturing and jobs, including Intel, General Motors, and Boeing. These announcements underscore President Biden's relentless focus on his industrial strategy to revitalize our manufacturing base and drive down prices, and the impact of the historic investments made by President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
[Andy Humbles, 2/8/22]
A company that creates technology to build DC fast chargers for electric vehicles will open a manufacturing facility in Lebanon that will create up to 500 jobs in the next five years…President Joe Biden lauded the facility that is expected to begin production in Lebanon in the fall 
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes more than $7 billion in funding to secure an American EV supply chain, and $7.5 billion to build out the first-ever nationwide public EV charging network.
 
[Jacob Fischler, 2/8/22]
Australian electric vehicle charging station manufacturer Tritium will open its first U.S. plant in Lebanon, Tenn., CEO Jane Hunter said during a White House event Tuesday. 
The facility would be able to produce 10,000 fast-charging units per year to start, ramping up to as many as 30,000 per year, Hunter said.
 
[Adam Sichko, 2/8/22]
On Tuesday, Tritium CEO Jane Hunter will join Biden at the White House for a formal announcement about the Lebanon investment, located east of Nashville. 
Tennessee will have four automakers making electric vehicles inside state lines, once General Motors (NYSE: GM) begins making its all-electric Cadillac Lyriq in Spring Hill this quarter and Ford Motor Co. (NYSE: F) powers up its $5.6 billion electric vehicle campus between Memphis and Jackson.
 
[Blake Summers, 2/8/22]
[…] Tritium's Tennessee site will serve as the company's sole U.S. facility for manufacturing modular direct current (D.C.) fast chargers. The new facility will have up to six production lines, which is expected to produce around 10,000 DC fast charger units per year. The facility could produce up to 30,000 units per year at peak capacity. "Yes, 
 "But it's going to deliver greater dignity and little bit more breathing room to workers. And they're family, and it's going to have a ripple effect far beyond the one state." 
 
[Emily Luxen, 2/8/22]
Australian electric vehicle charging company Tritium announced it will establish its first U.S. manufacturing facility in Lebanon. The 200,000 square foot facility will be located on Toshiba Drive and will produce Direct Current fast chargers for electric vehicles. 
 President Joe Biden and national climate adviser Gina McCarthy were alongside Tritium CEO Jane Hunter for the announcement at the White House. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Tennessee Rep. Jim Cooper were also on hand. 
 
[Laura Schweizer, 2/8/22]
Tritium DCFC Limited is a global leader in the electric vehicle (EV) charging industry and is expected to create more than 500 new jobs over the next five years in Lebanon.
 
[Peter Zampa, 2/8/22]
Tritium, a worldwide manufacturer for electric vehicle chargers, is set to break ground on its first U.S. facility in Lebanon, Tennessee later this year. 
 CEO of Tritium, Jane Hunter, appeared alongside President Biden and the Department of Energy's Secretary Granholm at the White House today for the announcement of the new plant. 
 […] 