 
Local news outlets across the state of New York are reporting on President Biden's comprehensive plan to reduce gun violence and keep our communities safe following his trip to New York City.
During the trip, President Biden and Attorney General Merrick Garland joined with New York City Mayor Eric Adams, New York Governor Kathy Hochul, Members of Congress, and other state and local leaders, and made clear that the solution to gun crime is not to defund our police forces, but to give them resources and training needed to better partner with and protect neighborhoods across the country. The President also reiterated his call for Congress to increase support for proven strategies to reduce gun crime by half a billion dollars – including $300 million to double federal support for community policing and another $200 million for community violence interventions.
[Joe Biden, 2/3/22]
It's time for all of us to say: enough. There are steps we can take to turn pain into purpose, and that is what I was in New York Thursday to announce…
[Kevin Frey, Justin Tasolides And Rachel Tillman, 2/3/22]
President Joe Biden traveled to New York City on Thursday to discuss his administration's efforts to combat crime and gun violence…
... Biden noted that he directed the Justice Department to "work with state and local law enforcement" to develop partnerships similar to the one in New York.
[Chris Sommerfeldt and Thomas Tracy, 2/3/22]
President Biden praised Mayor Adams' crime-fighting agenda Thursday and unveiled a new federal initiative aimed at stemming a flow of illegal weapons from southern states that has contributed to the city's recent spike in violence…Vowing to be Adams' "partner," 
…"If you commit a crime with a ghost gun, not only your state and local prosecutors are going to come after you, but expect federal charges and federal prosecution as well," Biden said.
[Editorial Board, 2/4/22]
Though there are more than enough guns and willing trigger-pullers already here to do plenty of damage for a long time, we can't argue with Joe Biden that easy access to firearms via the Iron Pipeline is fueling death and destruction on New York streets, so we commend his promise to ramp up the feds' cooperation with cities and states to combat gun trafficking…
... Biden's never been a "defund the police" type, but dishonest Republicans have leaped at the opportunity to create that impression.
[2/4/22]
On the same day that Mayor Eric Adams hosted President Joe Biden in New York City, new statistics were released that show major crime is on the rise…
Then, they traveled to queens with the mayor and Governor Kathy Hochul, talking to unarmed violence interrupters, professionals in the community who de-escalate problems before they turn deadly.
 
[Dick Brennan, 2/4/22]
President Joe Biden met with elected officials in the city on Thursday and announced federal help to stop the flow of guns into the state…"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden said…
…"Mayor Adams, you and I agree the answer is not to abandon our streets. That's not the answer. The answer is not to defund the police. It's to give you the tools, the training, the funding," Biden said.
[2/3/22]
Running through a grim tally of recent gun deaths, 
…"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden told police, law enforcement officials and lawmakers gathered at the city's police headquarters. "We can do something about this."…Biden promised NYC Mayor Eric Adams that the federal government would do what it can to help curb the rise in gun violence across the city.
[Colleen Long, Michael Balsamo and Michelle L. Price, 2/3/22]
"It's enough. Enough is enough," Biden told police, law enforcement officials and lawmakers gathered at the city's police headquarters. "We can do something about this."…"The answer is not to defund the police," Biden said. "It is to give you the tools, the training, the funding to be partners, to be protectors and know the community."… 
. 
[Katie Glueck, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, and Michael Wilson, 2/3/22]
Flanked by elected officials including Mayor Eric Adams — a former police captain whose messaging around crime and justice has been embraced by some national Democrats — Mr. Biden highlighted his calls to increase federal investments in policing and pledged that the Justice Department would focus on so-called ghost guns, firearms that are easily assembled from kits but are not regulated by federal gun laws…