Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I will be your slightly soggy pool reporter today. It's a busy and rainy day at the White House.
The president is set to speak at 10:45 am on the January jobs numbers, which exceeded expectations. BLS release is below.
Later, he's scheduled to deliver remarks and sign an executive order on project labor agreements at the Ironworkers Local 5 in Upper Marlboro, Maryland. Vice President Harris and Labor Secretary Walsh will also speak at the event.
Both events will livestream on 
Gathering at 10:30 for Biden’s jobs remarks by the Palm Room doors.
Biden is running late to his job remarks in the State Dining Room. Will update when he starts speaking. No update from staff on start time.
Pool won't be transcribing remarks as they will stream here:
Staff advises 5 to 10 minutes for Biden's remarks to begin. Will stream here:
Biden's remarks started at roughly 11:50.
"America is back to work," Biden declared after January jobs numbers surpassed expectations. The report showed 467,000 nonfarm jobs were added in January and more than 6.6 million since Biden took office.
The president's remarks also touched on conglomeration in the meat industry and other sectors, which he blamed for high prices. "Capitalism without competition is not capitalism. It's exploitation," Biden said.
The president's speech began at roughly 11:50 am and concluded at 12:05 pm. He did not respond to shouted questions.
Full video of the remarks is available here.
The briefing will start after Biden's remarks conclude. So roughly now.
Briefing starting soon.
Briefing ended at about 12:40. We’re departing for the Upper Marlboro event.
Motorcade is pulling out of the White House at roughly 1:04. We’re headed to Upper Marlboro, Maryland, where the president will sign an executive order on project labor agreements.
Pool arrived at Iron Workers Local 5 in Upper Marlboro at roughly 1:33.
The Ironworkers Local 5 hall where Biden is set to speak is covered in American flags and signs that say "Made in America." Iron workers are seated near the stage and a few in hard hats are seated above on a structure with their legs dangling.
White House staff sends this info on the union member who will introduce Biden, Harris and Walsh and the elected officials in attendance:
Greeting the President, the Vice President, and the Labor Secretary is Ms. Cranita Jordan, a 4th year apprentice at Ironworkers Local 5.
Participating in a photoline with the President and the Vice President
Senator Ben Cardin (MD)
Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)
Rep. Anthony Brown (MD-04)
Prince George’s County Executive Angela Alsobrooks
Charles County Board of Commissioners President Reuben Collins II
Upper Marlboro Mayor Sarah Franklin
Maryland State Senator Joanne Benson (MD-24)
Maryland State Delegate Andrea Fletcher Harrison
Maryland State Delegate Jazz Lewis
Maryland State Delegate Faye Martin Howell
Remarks will stream here:
The event in Upper Marlboro kicked off at 2:01. Biden, Harris and Walsh entered to applause.
Pool will not transcribe full event as it is streaming here:
From White House staff, here is the run of show:
In attendance for the remarks and executive order signing:
Walsh called the Biden administration the most pro-labor in history as he kicked off the event where Biden will sign an executive order expanding the federal government's use of project labor agreements for construction projects.
"It's always good to be in the house of labor," Harris said to cheers before transitioning to touting jobs numbers released earlier today. Harris said the nation's economic recovery continues to be "the strongest in the world."
Cranita Jordan, a fourth-year apprentice ironworker, introduced President Biden, who she called "a lifelong friend of workers like me."
Biden begins his remarks by recounting the story of the first union to endorse him and how when he went out to a job site there were workers sitting on an elevated beam like three of workers right now. "You're nuts," Biden jokes.
"You guys really are genuinely the best in the world. That's not hyperbole. That's a fact," Biden told the unionized ironworkers in the audience. He said adopting the project labor agreements for federal constructions will ensure safety, prevent problems and ultimately save U.S. taxpayers money. He said the executive order will "defuse problems before they arise."
Biden then moved onto discussing last week's Pittsburgh bridge collapse. "We can't count on miracles," he said noting that no one was killed in the collapse. "But we can count on the American worker," he added.
Biden has signed the order and the event is concluding at about 2:31.
Motorcade is leaving union hall at roughly 2:38. We’re headed back to the White House.
The motorcade has arrived back at the White House at roughly 3:09.
White House has called a lunch lid until 4:30.
The White House says there is a bad weather call that will prevent the president from taking Marine One to JBA. Instead, the president will take a motorcade to JBA. We'll be gathering at 5.
The motorcade is leaving the White House for JBA at roughly 5:59.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from a rainy JBA. I will be your pooler this weekend.
The motorcade arrived at 6:21 pm
POTUS boarded at 6:25 pm
He saluted and waived at the top of the stairs but he did not engage with the pool.
We will be taking off shortly. We are on the small AF1 so I am sending this report before boarding due to the lack of connection.
AF1 landed at 7 pm
The president exited the plane at 7:05 pm and went straight to his car.
The motorcade is now rolling.
Per the WH, the people traveling with him on the plane:
Traveling with the President on Air Force One:
After an uneventful ride the motorcade reached the Biden residence at 7:19 PM
We have a lid at 7:20 PM
Have a good night