Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House. The press pool and pre-credentialed media are gathered for President Biden's remarks on manufacturing, which are scheduled to begin at 1:45.
You can stream the event live on the WH website: 
President Biden walked on stage at 2:13 in the EEOB. As a reminder, there's video of the event streaming on the White House website.
The press briefing with Jen Psaki, originally scheduled to begin at 2, is expected to be delayed, but we don't yet have a new start time.
The White House shares the following:
In attendance for the President’s remarks on his Administration’s work to rebuild our manufacturing to make more in America, create good-paying union jobs, and lower energy costs for Americans:
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
Representative Jim Cooper (TN-05)
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
Celeste Drake, Made in America Director
Jane Hunter, CEO, Tritium
Speaking Program:
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Jane Hunter, CEO, Tritium
The President
President Biden finished speaking at 2:31. He immediately turned and walked away without taking any reporter questions.
Jen Psaki's briefing is now expected to begin at 2:45.
The daily briefing started at 2:40, earlier than anticipated.
Jen Psaki stood at the podium and waited for about a minute for tech crews to set up to record the event.
We have a travel/photo lid.
The White House shares the following:
Tomorrow, the President will participate in a roundtable with CEOs of electric utilities to discuss his Build Back Better agenda, which will make the largest investment in combatting climate change in U.S. history to lower energy costs for working families, create good-paying, union jobs, and build a reliable, clean energy future. The executives and organizations attending tomorrow operate key parts of America’s power grid and they know that the best way to ensure future economic growth is to make long-term investments that will combat the climate crisis, increase the competitiveness of our industries and protect our electrical grid from extreme weather events -- all while lowering costs for American families across the country.
Joining President Biden in the discussion from the Administration:
Private Sector Participants: