Pool Reports by 
, 
The travel pool arrived at JBA at 10am and is now aboard an Osprey about to take off.
We expect to land in Culpeper, VA., just ahead of President Biden, in time to see Marine One land.
Press pool Osprey touched down at 11:16am and parked alongside the one ferrying staff to Culpeper, VA.
Marine One and escort helicopters came into view at 11:30am. The presidential helicopter touched down on the far side of a hangar and taxied to a stop at 11:36 at White Hawk Aviation.
Rep. Abigail Spanberger was among those waiting.
The president stepped out at 11:38, saluted the two Marines, reached out to share a handshake with Spanberger. They then hugged briefly.
Next to her was Culpeper Mayor Frank Reaves Jr. He also got a quick chat. POTUS boarded the Beast. Motorcade rolled at 11:42.
Traveling with the President to Culpeper, Virginia:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Ashley Jones, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
The president arrived at Germanna Community College in Culpeper, Va., at 11:57am.
Very few onlookers at a gas station outside the small Culpeper Regional Airport and along the rural US29 route.
Motorcade passed a Trump flag and sign that read "We fear God, not Covid" just after leaving the airport.
Near the college, though, a couple dozen protesters.
"Get your grubby hands off my healthcare" and "FJB" were among the signs. Also "Build Crack Better" and a long one that said "We won't forget what you stole: Jobs, Freedoms, History, Elections, Our Future," held by a bearded man whose bicep tattoo was mostly hidden by the short sleeve of his red Make America Great Again T-shirt.
At least one man was shouting "Let's Go Brandon" as we passed. That message was on several signs, too.
One man held a large "Joe Biden Sucks" flag. Poolers spotted a girl of about 7 holding a "Don't sniff me" hand drawn sign next to a woman, presumably mom, holding a "Biden Sucks" sign.
A number of red Youngkin for governor signs were planted at the protest corner.
Culpeper was the site of about a hundred Civil War battles and we passed a few signs related to historical sites en route.
Pool holding along with non-poolers awaiting the President. Stage set with signs that read "Build Back Better" and "Lowering Costs for Families."
Connectivity isn't super.
Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra has opened the program and Germanna Community College.
Event is online live at 
Speaking Program:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Representative Abigail Spanberger (VA-07)
Joshua & Shannon Davis
The President
President Biden just started to speak, after Shannon Davis and her 12-year-old son, Joshua Davis, spoke about the high cost of Joshua's insulin. He's a 7th grader. "I live a very active life and don't let Type 1 slow me down." His diabetes was diagnosed when he was 11 months old.
"I am thankful that insulin was invented... Thank you so much to Congresswoman Spanberger and President Biden for all they're doing to make sure I will be able to continue to live safely and actively with affordable insulin," Joshua said.
The president marveled at the boy's poise.
"I could no more have done that when I was 12 years old than fly," Biden said, noting his childhood stutter. "I want you to know that lowering the cost of prescription drugs is one of the reasons why I'm here with your congressman."
Before the program started, pool chatted briefly with Rep. Abigail Spanberger at Germanna Community College in Culpeper. This area is in both the old and new versions of her district, VA-7.
What does it mean for Biden to come to her district:
Spanberger: "I'm just pleased to have the opportunity to have so many constituents speak with the President, take some pictures and share their stories. …It's important that they be able to tell the stories directly."
Some Dems don't want to be seen with Biden but you're here: Spanberger emphasized this isn't a campaign event.
Spanberger: "I am representing my community…. I have the opportunity to literally give my constituents the opportunity to tell their stories to the president United States. That's, for me, the height of what representation can and should be."
How concerned are you about the inflation news out today and broadly about prices weighing down on families?
Spanberger: "That's part and parcel of what we're here talking about. Right? So when you're worried about the gas pump or you're worried about the cost of chicken in the grocery store, and your child is diabetic -- all those things become impactful." Those are issues that matter ever day "to particularly the people who are here today."
Dems are in control during this stubborn inflation, does that make you more vulnerable?
Spanberger: "It's fair to say that we should be focused on addressing all the issues that matter to people and certainly, the laundry list of concerns that people bring to me as a representative includes inflation." The American Rescue Plan delivered billions to small businesses "so they wouldn't close their doors, so people could remain employed…. Virginia received more than $2.1 billion directly to school districts…. Then you look at the infrastructure bill" and provisions to help truckers and expand hours at ports of entry. "There's not one singular cause of inflation. There's not going to be one singular solution."
The president's remarks in Culpeper, Va., just ended.
correcting a quote from report #5 from Rep. Abigail Spanberger: "of the" was dropped in the phrase "president of the United States."
"I am representing my community…. I have the opportunity to literally give my constituents the opportunity to tell their stories to the president 
United States. That's, for me, the height of what representation can and should be."
President Biden is currently doing an interview with NBC News' Lester Holt at Germanna Community College in Culpeper, Va.
The pool remains in the space used for the event listening to light jazz, uploading photos etc.
NBC says its "exclusive, wide-ranging interview" will air during NBC's Super Bowl LVI Pregame Show on Sunday, Feb. 13. Portions will air on NBC Nightly News Thursday, Feb. 10, and Friday, Feb. 11 on TODAY, Nightly News, MSNBC, NBCNews.com and NBC News NOW.
Per NBC: "This marks President Biden's first sit-down interview of 2022 and his first since marking one year in office."
The interview with NBC's Lester Holt ended--not that the pool saw any of it--and President Biden returned to the Beast.
The motorcade rolled from Germanna Community College in Culpeper, Va., at 2:52 pm en route Culpeper Regional Airport in Brandy Station, Va.
Uneventful motorcade from Germanna Community College to Culpeper Regional Airport, past a sign indicating we are 65 miles from Washington. Came to a stop at 3:09p.
Spotted a sign along the highway near the airport that read Farmers for Trump, with a pasture on the far side of the fence and maybe a dozen cattle.
The anti-Biden protesters near the college were gone. No signs or venom in sight.
Two women we didn't see on the way in were stationed on a nearby corner holding handmade signs that read "We (heart) Joe" and "Culpeper (heart) Biden."
A few dozen people offered friendly waves from roadside near the airport.
Pool Osprey is some 200 yards from Marine One and we did not see POTUS board. Rotors rotating at 3:12.
Pool and staff Osprey are back at JBA. Official handoff to intown pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello, I will serve as your pooler for the rest of this quite beautiful afternoon at the White House.
Your pool is now gathering for the president's arrival on the South Lawn.
As a reminder, herewith his program for the rest of the day, according to the WH
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 3:42 PM
POTUS stepped out at 3:45 holding a rolled up newspaper in his right hand and walked towards the residence.
He did not answer shouted questions about Hill staffers trying to unionize and about inflation.
The WH shares the following:
The meeting with the Senate Judiciar Comittee Democrats will start in 2 min per the WH
Will effort quotes and audio
The WH declared a lid at 6:17 PM.
You will find below the list of the Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats who engaged with the press after their meeting at the White House. Senator Dianne Feinstein could not attend the meeting, and Senator Cory Booker was there, but did not come over to the stakeout location.
The senators insisted on the "historic" importance of this Supreme Court nomination process and most of them expressed their "hope" that it will get bipartisan support.
Here is a link to my Otter, I am afraid the quality is not perfect.
More quotes tk
Senator Dick DurbinD-IL
Senator Patrick LeahyD-VT
Senator Sheldon WhitehouseD-RI
Senator Amy KlobucharD-MN
Senator Chris CoonsD-DE
Senator Richard BlumenthalD-CT
Senator Mazie HironoD-HI
Senator Alex PadillaD-CA
Senator Jon OssoffD-GA
Hello, you will find the video here:
Signing off now, it was a pleasure serving as your pooler.
Have a good night