Pool Reports by 
, 
Morning, please note the new briefing time.
The rest of the schedule remains unchanged.
There’s a BBB round table at 2:30 p.m.
The meeting is related to the SCOTUS nominee review process -
More per an official:
It was scheduled for 1 p.m. No word on updated time.
[
]
The briefing with Jen Psaki started at 1:24 p.m.
Pool and credentialed media have been told to immediately assemble for the president's Build Back Better roundtable event, scheduled for 2:30 p.m.
Pool was ushered into the State Dining Room for the event at 2:39 pm.
The event will be streamed on the WH website but I’ll send along key quotes.
POTUS began by saying he couldn't stay for the whole event but thanked the executives for coming.
POTUS asked Patricia Vincent Collawn, CEO of of PNM Resources, an electricity provider in New Mexico, how BBB could help the economy:
"This legislation is going to allow us to be carbon free sooner," she said. Importantly, she added, BBB funding would allow "for a just transition," meaning workers can be retrained from other industries like coal or adjust to new jobs without leaving tribal lands where they live.
She pointed out that New Mexico is one of the poorest states but has "number three solar potential in the United States … and then number three, onshore wind potential."
"Your support … will really allow us to accelerate making energy reliable, affordable and cleaner, sooner," she said.
POTUS praised electric vehicles as "quiet n quick," which got him a laugh.
He said he and his wife spent time with indigenous communities in NM and other places and said the legislation "will make a difference for them in a big way."
Vincent Collawn (of PNM) said the Navajo Nation and others are ready and prepared to move to clean energy.
POTUS asked another executive about wind energy. He said on one related trip he was particularly impressed by windmill blade.
"They showed me a blade of a windmill that's 100 yards long. My lord. Holy lord."
Nick Akins, the CEO of American Electric Power, says they have a project in place that will say will save customers billions.
"I think it's a heck of an opportunity," POTUS agreed, adding that in "2012, 13 or 14" he was talking about a "major" wind initiative on the East Coast.
"But there was a real blowback when people said 'I don't wanna see those things.'"
He asked about the reception of people who live near the project in Oklahoma. Akins said "for us it's important to scope those projects."
"Generic question: are you getting less resistance when you talk about wind and windmills? I know they cause cancer," he said, a jab at former President Trump's claim that windmill noise caused cancer, a view experts have debunked and others in the Republican Party (Grassley) have called idiotic.
"Bad joke," POTUS added.
Gerald Anderson, chair of of DTE Energy, replied that people have embraced wind and reception to "solar" has been very high. "We expect that to be a well received renewable resource in the state."
POTUS said that "in some cases China is ahead of us but I think we're gonna end up having a significant export market as well."
He joked that he hoped when executives looked back in 10 years at this time when they didn't have any dinner at the White House (Covid joke) that it would have been worth it.
The president didn't take any shouted questions and joked to the executives about a "press conference" in a voice that was just nearly audible.
A WH aide was concerned about the president taking questions as the lingering last of the pool was shuffled out. "Don't think about it Matt," she said, singling out a Wapo reporter whose path out of the room was momentarily blocked by equipment.
Event ended at 3:03 pm.
Speaking Program, per WH:
The President
Pat Vincent-Collawn, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of PNM Resources
Nick Akins, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of American Electric Power
Background if you need it was sent last night from WH (note "tomorrow" is now today):
Tomorrow, the President will participate in a roundtable with CEOs of electric utilities to discuss his Build Back Better agenda, which will make the largest investment in combatting climate change in U.S. history to lower energy costs for working families, create good-paying, union jobs, and build a reliable, clean energy future. The executives and organizations attending tomorrow operate key parts of America's power grid and they know that the best way to ensure future economic growth is to make long-term investments that will combat the climate crisis, increase the competitiveness of our industries and protect our electrical grid from extreme weather events -- all while lowering costs for American families across the country.
Joining President Biden in the discussion from the Administration:
Private Sector Participants:
Bye