Local news outlets from Pennsylvania to New Mexico are reporting on yesterday's announcement that nearly $725 million in Fiscal Year '22 funding is available to 22 states and the Navajo Nation to create jobs and economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands (AML) as part of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
The Department of the Interior will allocate and distribute nearly $725 million of AML funding annually over the next 15 years, which will help communities eliminate dangerous environmental conditions and pollution caused by past coal mining while creating jobs and spurring economic growth. These resources will allow states and Tribes to begin addressing outstanding reclamation needs and to reassess estimated costs of existing projects. And, as required by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this funding will prioritize projects that employ dislocated coal industry workers.
Pennsylvania's nearly $245 million allocation dwarfs every other state because it has the largest inventory of abandoned mine land problem areas in the nation. …
U.S. Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Forest Hills, said the funding "means that Americans will be put to work in good-paying jobs" while U.S. Rep. Conor Lamb, D-Mt. Lebanon, said it presents an opportunity to "restore the land and prepare it for the opportunities presented by the new economy."
 The law will allocate a total of $11.3 billion in AML funding over 15 years, which will help communities eliminate dangerous environmental conditions and pollution caused by past coal mining. This historic funding allocation is expected to address the vast majority of inventoried abandoned mine lands in this country. As required by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this funding will prioritize projects that employ dislocated coal industry workers.
 
Governor Tom Wolf announced Monday that Pennsylvania has been awarded $244.9 million from President Joe Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to clean up abandoned mines across the commonwealth. 
Governor Wolf announced on Monday that Pennsylvania has been awarded just under $250 million from President Biden's Infrastructure Law to clean abandoned mines across the state. 
 "This bipartisan investment will address the dangers of abandoned mines while simultaneously supporting new, good-paying jobs, economic recovery, and community revitalization."
 
 The money will be used to clean up the more than 5,000 abandoned mines across the state. Wolf said the mines are environmental and safety hazards, which could cause fires and water and air pollution. Wolf said the funds will allow the state to put the land to more productive use, such as for things like recreation, farming or clean energy production.
The U.S. Department of Interior announced nearly $725 million in funding is available to reclaim abandoned mine lands and Pennsylvania will receive the most from that funding. 
Senator Casey says around a million and a half Pennsylvanians lives within one mile of an abandoned mine site.
 
Pennsylvania will get the largest share — $244.9 million — of an initial $725 million in federal funding later this year to clean up abandoned coal mines, thanks to the infrastructure law passed late last year…"
The funds from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, signed in November by President Biden, will provide $11.3 million over 15 years at a rate of $725 million a year. It's in addition to the lesser amounts of money that come to states through the abandoned mine lands funding, paid for by coal companies.
 
Today, the U.S. Department of Interior announced that nearly $725 million in funding has been made available to states to reclaim abandoned mine lands (AML), allocated as part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law... For much of the twentieth century mining companies could use our natural resources and leave their sites without restoration. Congress changed that in the 1970s, taking steps to increase funding for remediating these sites, but hundreds of thousands of acres of Pennsylvania remain impacted. 
West Virginia is slated to receive more than $140 million to reclaim abandoned mine lands, according to the state's congressional delegation. 
"Reclaiming our abandoned mine lands will continue to have positive impacts in West Virginia, leading to improvements in our water quality, revitalized landscapes, and further economic development and job creation." Capito said.
 
Nearly $725 million in federal funding is available this fiscal year to 22 states, including West Virginia and the Navajo Nation for the reclamation of abandoned coal mines and cleanup of acid mine drainage
Reclamation of shuttered coal mine sites is considered crucial to preventing environmental pollution and returning land to its natural setting. The funding is considered key to removing toxic metals and returning fish and wildlife to waterways.
The Department of the Interior announced Monday nearly $725 million in Fiscal Year 22 funding, including more than $74 million for Kentucky, is available to 22 states and the Navajo Nation for reclaiming abandoned mine lands (AML) as part of President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law…
 
Illinois will receive more than $75 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Interior this year to boost efforts to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state, Governor JB Pritzker announced Monday... 
 
Illinois is planning to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state with over $75 million in federal funding. The money is coming from the U.S. Department of Interior to boost cleanup efforts. 
, a press release from Gov. JB Pritzker's office said.
Illinois will receive more than $75 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Interior this year to boost efforts to clean up abandoned coal mines throughout the state, Governor JB Pritzker announced February 7. 
 
The Interior department is giving states $725 million to clean up abandoned coal mines. The money will come from the infrastructure law approved last year and will fund projects to close mine shafts, fix unstable slopes and treat acid mine drainage. 
 "This problem is bad. there are 20-thousand under some counts of abandoned coal mines that have been left over decades," said Winnie Stachelberg with the US Department of the Interior.
The U.S. Department of the Interior announced on Monday that 
This funding is intended to help create jobs and economic opportunities for areas that have been dependent on coal mining.
In another round of Infrastructure Bill investments, the Biden administration announced the allocation of nearly $725 million into the Appalachian Mountains region to reclaim abandoned mine lands. 