Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a drizzly South Lawn. Pool is rolling in the motorcade at 7:55 a.m.
We did not see POTUS enter the limousine, as we loaded into vans around 7:15. He is headed to the Capitol Visitor Center for the National Prayer Breakfast.
Also flagging the POTUS statement that just hit your inboxes and a coming update to the daily guidance with remarks on a counterterrorism operation in Syria being added to the schedule.
Uneventful trip down Independence Avenue, arriving at the Capitol Visitors Center at 8:01 a.m.
Shuffling inside for remarks. Could not glimpse POTUS getting out of the limo under the Capitol portico.
Remarks will be streamed, as usual, on the White House site.
POTUS and VPOTUS took the stage at 8:21 to applause and took seats in the front row.
Sen. Mike Rounds is first to speak, taking the lectern on a dais below the stage and discussing the non-partisan history of the event. Row of flags behind him, prompters set up for the president.
Watch here: 
Auditorium, a much smaller venue for this event than in years past, is about 2/3 full. Lots of senators milling around and in seats, including Sens. McConnell, Portman, Klobuchar, Capito, Lankford, Coons (and others taking part in the event are listed below).
Backing up —
Pool held just inside the entryway to the Capitol (on the House side) and waited for stills to get a quick shot of POTUS walking through a hallway at 8:09. Then proceeded down the stairs to the Visitor’s Center auditorium.
From the WH:
Run of show:
Opening remarks: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) and Sen. Mike Rounds (SD)
Performance of "The Blessing": Kari Jobe
Opening prayer: Sen. Raphael Warnock (GA)
Opening reading: Rep. Cathy McMorris-Rogers (WA-5)
Remarks and keynote speaker introduction: Sen. Chris Coons (DE)
Keynote speaker: Bryan Stevenson, Equal Justice Initiative
Old Testament reading: Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
New Testament reading: Minority Leader Mitch McConnell
Introducing the President: Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand
The President delivers remarks
Performance of "Turn Your Eyes Heal Our Land": Kari Jobe
Introducing the Vice President: Sen. Mike Rounds
The Vice President delivers remarks
Reading: Rep. Lucy McBath (GA-6)
Closing Prayer: Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith (MS)
Performance of "How Great Thou Art"
POTUS took the stage at 9:05 a.m. following an introduction from Senator Gillibrand (and a rousing keynote by Bryan Stevenson). The room stood and applauded as he stepped up to the dais.
He is speaking now. VP Harris scheduled to follow.
One other addition to the list of spotted senators in the room from the last note: Sen. Joe Manchin, sitting alone on the far right side of the room (h/t Bloomberg’s Nancy Cook).
POTUS wrapped at 9:25 to applause. He shook a few hands and left the auditorium through a door above the stage.
Pool is heading out behind POTUS and returning to the White House, so we will miss the VP Harris remarks.
On the remarks —
He seemed moved by Gillibrand's introduction about his overcoming immense loss, speaking off the cuff at the top about today being his son Beau's birthday and recalled their last conversation in the hospital. He said he didn't deserve so much praise for overcoming personal loss because he had so much family help.
"Everybody has got horrible things that happen to them," he said. "I had a lot of help."
Lots of personal asides to attending senators.
To McConnell: "I don't want to hurt your reputation, but we really are friends."
He asked for prayers for Senator Lujan, who he said he thinks is "going to be okay."
POTUS's prepared remarks lamented how senators no longer spend as much time getting to know one another. Said he prays that "we get back to the place…that we really get to know each other. It's hard to really dislike someone when you know what they're going through."
He noted the country is "at a moment of deep division," urged people to follow Jesus's instruction to "serve rather than be served," adding "I don't always do it."
"I pray to keep the faith in the very promise of America," he said, urging people to look beyond their differences and see the good in one another.
He closed with his favorite Seamus Heaney poem.
Motorcade rolling away from Capitol at 9:33 a.m. and headed back to the WH.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 9:39. POTUS entered the residence from the south portico at 9:40 and walked down the colonnade and entered the Oval Office from the exterior door at 9:42.
Pool holding before remarks on the Syria operation.
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 10:08 a.m. A lectern is set up in the usual spot in front of the fireplace mantle.
POTUS is expected shortly to speak on the counterterrorism operation in Syria and the death of the leader of ISIS.
Remarks will be streamed at 
Just got 2-minute warning at 10:18. Stand by.
POTUS entered the Roosevelt Room alone at 10:21 and walked to the lectern and began speaking.
He says the ISIS leader killed in the raid he authorized was "a major terrorist threat to the world."
Remarks streaming live…
POTUS wrapped his remarks at 10:26. He did not respond to shouted questions about the number of troops involved and civilian casualties, turning back and exiting the room. He noted he's heading to New York now: "I'm late."
Pool scrambling now to load back into vans, as bad weather means we're motorcading to JBA.
A couple POTUS quotes—
"Knowing that this terrorist had chosen to surround himself with families, including children, we made a choice to pursue a Special Forces raid at a much greater risk than our to our own people rather than targeting him with an airstrike. We made this choice to minimize civilian casualties."
But, he continued, the target opted to detonate a bomb killing not just himself but his family.
Wrapping up: "I'm determined to protect Americans from terrorist threats. And I'll take decisive action to protect this country."
Motorcade rolling from White House south driveway at 10:34 a.m. and headed to JBA for POTUS’ delayed departure to NYC.
Motorcade rolled onto the rainy tarmac at Joint Base Andrews at 10:54 and the president’s limo pulled up beside Air Force One at 10:57.
Handing off now to out of town pool.
Hello again. Motorcade is rolling from JBA tarmac as of 7:06 p.m. and headed back to the White House.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House and pulled to a stop outside the south portico at 7:30 p.m. Pool did not see POTUS enter the residence:
We have a travel/photo lid. Have a good night, all.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Your pooler is masked, tested and settled at a rainy, dreary Joint Base Andrews as we await POTUS's trip to New York City to discuss crime and gun violence.
Our departure, initially scheduled for roughly 9:50 has been pushed back to likely 10:25 because POTUS has added White House remarks about the Syrian counterterrorism operation to his schedule.
Here is what POTUS will be doing in NYC today, though those times will now vary.
Feel free to reach out with any questions
 
We are now expected to depart JBA at 11:00 and arrive at JFK airport around noon.
POTUS arrived at JBA via motorcade at 10:56
He boarded AF1 at 11:00
POTUS did not take any questions shouted at him by the pool, including questions on Syria and crime in NYC.
POTUS Was wearing a navy blue suit but didn’t have an overcoat on for this chilly weather.
Your pooler is returning to AF1 for departure
Per White House, here is who is traveling with POTUS on AF1
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
Traveling to New York City on Air Force One with the President:
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Representative Nydia Velazquez (NY-07)
Representative Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Stef Feldman, Deputy Asst to the President & Senior Advisor to the Domestic Policy Advisor
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Justin Oswald, Special Assistant to the President and House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Wheels up at 11:09
We are still expected to land around noon at JFK
Next up is the press gaggle with press secretary Jen Psaki.
You can listen here
Wheels down at JFK Airport at 11:53.
During the flight, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki answered pool questions on the operation in Syria and the POTUS’s crime initiatives.
We should be deplaning shortly. It was a bumpy ride.
Greetings from a cold, rainy NYC, where somehow it’s raining harder than it was in DC.
POTUS walked off AF1 at 12:10
He did not rake any questions, but was masked and not wearing his overcoat.
POTUS entered the beast at 12:11
Your pooler is on the move
Your pooler is on the move. The motorcade is leaving JFK headed to police headquarters in lower Manhattan.
The rain has picked up since we’ve landed.
After an uneventful drive through Brooklyn's Grand Central Parkway, we have arrived at One Police Plaza, the headquarters of the NYPD, in Lower Manhattan.
Time of arrival is 1:07.
The GCP's electronic road signs warned us of "poor" driving conditions but the ride was smooth.
Your pooler observed one "Let's Go Brandon" sign and a gaggle of protesters with a bullhorn, near the police HQ. However it was unclear what they were protesting.
This is a correction to Travel Pool #8 as several NYC natives have pointed out to me that the Grand Central Parkway runs through Queens, not Brooklyn.
I regret the error, especially since I used to live here!!
The pool is holding in lobby of NYPD HQ ahead of POTUS remarks. Pool spray scheduled for 1:45.
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the building.
Per White House
The President is participating in a photo line with elected officials and New York City Police Department officers and leadership, including:
Mayor Eric Adams, New York City
Governor Kathy Hochul, New York
Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Representative Thomas Suozzi (NY-03)
Representative Grace Meng (NY-06)
Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)
Attorney General Letitia James, New York
Meeting has begun. POTUS talked about the recent rash of law enforcement deaths.
POTUS said of police "I admire the hell" out of them.
On defunding the police, "We are not about defunding, we are about funding."
Called for increased funding for community policing and ATF
Will provide fuller quotes when I can.
In attendance for the Gun Violence Strategies Partnership meeting are approximately 105 attendees, including elected officials and representatives from 25 law enforcement agencies.
Speaking program:
Mayor Eric Adams, New York City
The President
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Governor Kathy Hochul, New York
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Representative Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
Representative Nydia Velazquez (NY-07)
Keechant Sewell, Police Commissioner, New York City Police Department
Chauncey Parker, Deputy Commissioner of Community Partnerships, New York City Police Department
Since this is live-streamed, I'll just provide a handful of quotes
The president talked about his initiatives to crack down on crime. He praised the two NYPD officers who died last month.
Attorney General Garland
"As I close I want to note, as in times of crises, both large and small the American people look to law enforcement every day like the heroes who are with us today."
NYC Mayor Adams
"The president is here because he knows what the American people want — justice, safety and prosperity and they deserve every bit of it."
On Biden
"He knows that public safety, and justice are the bedrock of our economy, our democracy and our society."
The pool was cleared from the room at 2:30. POTUS, AG Garland and Mayor Adams are still in the room.
Pool is walking to holding location.
Some color from today's meeting with POTUS and law enforcement officials in NYC.
At the start of the event POTUS motioned back to an NYPD officer. That was NYPD Officer Sumit Sulan, the third officer who responded to the domestic dispute call in Harlem that left two other NYPD officers dead.
The pool is leaving the holding area and returning to the motorcade.
The motorcade is on the move at 3:25
Your pooler did not see POTUS exit the NYPD headquarters.
Our expected next stop is at a PS 111, Jacob Blackwell, a public school in Queens. Here is the event:
The motorcade arrived at PS 111 Jacob Blackwell in Queens at 3:45
As we drive through the streets of Manhattan leaving the police headquarters, scores of onlookers waved to the motorcade and snapped photos.
One person held a "Let's Go Brandon" sign, but a few onlookers also gave the thumbs up.
When we got to Queens, one man held a "Stop NATO" sign, while dozens of others recorded and photographed the motorcade.
Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the building.
POTUS walked into classroom #129 at PS 111 Jacob Blackwell grade school at 3:58
He was accompanied by New York Mayor Eric Adams.
The room has two small circular tables. The walls have Black History Month displays and several books marking Black History Month are standing upright.
Other signs adorning the walls promote "critical thinking" "conflict resolution" and "health and wellness"
A photo of the room can be found in my Twitter
@JeffMordock
Per White House:
The President is receiving an overview from leaders of the Community Capacity Development, a community violence intervention program that is part of New York City’s Crisis Management System. Participants:
K. Bain, Founder and Executive Director, Community Capacity Development
Shyism Bryant, Training Specialist, Community Capacity Development
Emanuel Campbell, Staff Supervisor, Community Capacity Development
Martin Caba, Program Manager, Community Capacity Development
The pool was ushered out of the room at 4:25.
Quotes to follow.
POTUS largely listened as several attendees talked about the role of community liaisons and ambassadors.
At one point POTUS asked one of the ambassadors if he liked being an ambassador.
POTUS talked about the value of having the parents participating in the lives of the school children. He emphasized the need for parents to be involved in their lives.
Some of his comments were inaudible. As always please check against the transcript.
A shout out to Laura Barrón-López of POLITICO for helping me grab some of POTUS qoutes
The one thing I observed over the years the more you have the parents involved.
"It is difficult for a child no matter what circumstance they are in….if they go back to a totally dysfunctional system in the home."
"I know a lot about schools and one of the most difficult things in schools....is a lack of participation of the parents"
"I don't know of a school that in fact is doing well that does not have more parent participation. That's why I asked the question. I'm not trying to be critical. I'm just trying to understand."
"So education, when done wrong is violence when health needs are not met in a community that's a form of violence.... that's why it's important in a holistic approach that we call healing justice, human justice work. We consider food apartheid, what food the people have access to"
White House passes along the following
From Press Secretary Jen Psaki:
As the President mentioned in his remarks, ahead of today’s visit to New York City, he spoke with family members of NYPD Officers Wilbert Mora and Jason Rivera to express his heartfelt condolences for their loss.
The President also spoke last night with NYPD Commissioner Sewell to convey his support for the work her department is doing to combat gun crime and strengthen ties with the communities they serve and protect.
Before today’s Gun Violence Strategies Partnership meeting at One Police Plaza, the President met with NYPD Officer Sumit Sulan.
POTUS is participating in a photo line at PS 111 Jacob Blackwell with the following, per White House
The President is participating in a photo line with the President are elected officials and community violence program leaders, including:
Lieutenant Governor Brian Benjamin, New York
Donovan Richards Jr., Queensborough President
New York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams
New York State Senator Brian Kavanagh
New York State Assemblywoman Catherine Nolan
New York City Council Speaker Adrienne Adams
New York City Council Member Selvena Brooks Powers
New York City Council Member Julie Won
New York City Council Member Kamillah Hanks
New York City Council Member Nantasha Williams
Just cleaning up a quote from previous pool report. Fix is in bold.
Cleaned up Biden quote responding to Bain, from last report...
Biden: "Yes and no. This is even more basic than that. What I'm trying to get at is that it is difficult to, for a child no matter what circumstance you're in 
 10 hours a day when they leave home to go to school, go back, if they go back to a totally dysfunctional system. 
The motorcade has begun rolling at 5:17. Headed back to JFK Airport in Queens.
Your pooler didn’t see POTUS exit the school.
Here is who spoke at todays event at PS 111 Jacob Blackwell
Dionne Jaggon, Principal, P.S. 111 Jacob Blackwell School
Martin Caba, Program Manager, Community Capacity Development
Also in attendance:
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Mayor Eric Adams, New York City
Governor Kathy Hochul, New York
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Representative Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)
David Banks, Chancellor, New York City Department of Education
Council Member Julie Won, New York City Council District 26
After taking Grand Central Parkway through Queens, pool arrived at JFK airport at 6:00.
Scores of people photographed or video recorded the motorcade. And one couple held up an American flag as the motorcade passed.
We are about to board AF1.
Wheels up on AF1 at 6:10.
The pool didn’t see POTUS board AF1
AF1 Wheels down at JAB at 6:55.
It was a smooth ride but a bumpy landing.
POTUS stepped off AF1 at 7:04 and immediately got into his car without taking questions on this rainy cold night.
That’s all from me. I’m kicking it over to In-Town, have a great night.
It was a pleasure being your pooler.