Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington. It's currently 23 degrees, slightly warmer than expected!
Pool was just tested ahead of our 9:00am call time, but POTUS currently has an empty schedule. Might we have an OTR brunch with FLOTUS? Perhaps a late afternoon mass? Only time will tell.
As always, free to ping me directly with questions.
Your pooler was just informed his weather app was still set to Washington, DC… it is in fact 17 degrees in Wilmington.
Pool loaded in the bus and departed the hotel just after 9:05am, destination unknown. More to follow…
Pool is holding near the Biden residence and undergoing standard USSS security checks.
At 9:37am, a blue sedan drove by, and a woman yelled "Let's go Brandon" twice at the pool.
It remains 17 degrees. More to follow…
Pool linked up with the motorcade, and we're rolling to an undisclosed location as of 11:23pm. More to follow…
Motorcade made it to WCC at 11:30am, but the press bus did not follow onto the grounds. We're holding outside the gate.
POTUS is accompanied by his grandson, Hunter, per the White House
Motorcade exited the club gates at 2:03pm, pool bus in tow.
More to follow…
Motorcade was back at the Biden residence at 2:12pm. Pool could not see POTUS and grandson, Hunter, exit their vehicle.
One fun bit of color from the ride: a large raptor swooped down and snared what pool assumes was a small animal as the motorcade passed a farm on the route back. Co-poolers think it was an eagle.
… until 3:45pm
Pool is heading back to our hotel
Pool linked back up with the motorcade near the Biden home at 4:03pm.
We're oscar mike as of 4:56pm, destination unknown.
More to follow…
Motorcade arrived at St. Joseph of the Brandywine at 4:58pm.
Pool caught a glimpse of POTUS wearing a dark coat. He walked past the cemetery and entered the church with other parishioners at 4:59pm.
We're now holding by the rear lot
Passing along from WH officials, regarding the developing situation in Dallas, TX:
The President has been briefed about the developing hostage situation in the Dallas area. He will continue to receive updates from his senior team as the situation develops. Senior members of the national security team are also in touch with federal law enforcement leadership.
POTUS exited the church at 5:53pm and spoke briefly with parishioners at the entrance before heading back to the motorcade.
POTUS did not respond to a shouted question about the situation in TX
We're rolling again as of 5:55pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the Biden home at 6:00pm. We did not see the president exit the motorcade.
WH called a lid at 6:02pm. See y'all bright and early.