Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! Your pooler has arrived at the White House on a cool, 45° D.C. morning.
Per the public schedule, a press briefing with White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell is set for 11:45 am. I'll be in the print pool seat; questions welcome.
POTUS is scheduled to give remarks on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law at 12:30 pm. He'll depart for Wilmington at 6:00 pm.
2 minutes until the press briefing.
The briefing with FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and White House press secretary Jen Psaki is underway.
The White House press briefing started at 11:47 am and ended at 12:23 pm. We are now gathering for President Biden's remarks on infrastructure.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks is Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator.
Speaking program:
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
The President
President Biden and Senior Advisor Mitch Landrieu will speak in 2 minutes.
President Biden spoke for about 15 minutes on infrastructure, after Senior Advisor Mitch Landrieu's remarks, ending at 1:20 pm.
There is now a lunch lid until 5 pm.
The lunch lid has ended, though no further activities are planned. President Biden is expected to leave for Wilmington at 6 pm. The pool will gather shortly before his departure.
The pool is now gathering at the Palm Room Doors for President Biden's departure to Wilmington from the South Lawn.
President Biden departed from the South Lawn on Marine One at 6:12 pm. He took no questions.
Per the White House, traveling on Marine One to Wilmington, Delaware with the President:
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good evening from scenic Wilmington, DE, where pool's nearly 3-hour bus ride from DC just concluded. We're holding at the LZ ahead of POTUS' arrival, currently scheduled for 6:55pm.
Feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions… I'll be here all weekend
Marine One touched down at Brandywine Creek State Park at 7:11pm
He and his traveling companions exited M1 at 7:15pm and hopped right in the motorcade. Pool was ushered back to the bus, and we're rolling as of 7:16pm.
More to follow…
After a short drive, motorcade reached the Biden home at 7:26pm. Pool did not see POTUS enter the residence. We're currently holding outside in the bus.
More to follow…
… at 7:27pm. Have a great night, y'all