[Editorial Board, 1/25/22]
President Biden's latest nominees to the Federal Reserve — Sarah Bloom Raskin to be vice chair for supervision and economists Lisa Cook and Philip Jefferson to be Fed governors — are highly qualified experts who deserve to be confirmed swiftly.
All three have strong ties to the central bank. Ms. Bloom Raskin, a lawyer, was a Fed governor from 2010 to 2014 and then became deputy treasury secretary. Ms. Cook is 
 of the Chicago Fed and has been a 
 in recent years to the prestigious Jackson Hole gathering of central bankers and top economic thinkers. She is a professor at Michigan State University. Mr. Jefferson is a 
 at the Fed who has also had a long career in academia. He is 
of faculty at Davidson College.
Some conservatives have tried to paint these nominees as extremely liberal. There's no justification for that. It's telling that 
and several prominent economists from the 
 and 
 administrations have praised these candidates.
Ms. Bloom Raskin has come under fire for 
 not to bail out struggling oil and gas companies during the early days of the pandemic. In hindsight, she was right. Gas prices rebounded and energy firms 
. More broadly, she has been a 
 of U.S. regulators, including the Fed, making financial firms consider climate risk moving forward. This is common sense. It won't shut down lending for production and use of fossil fuels, but it would push banks to start quantifying a huge risk to the financial system.
Ms. Cook would be the 
 to serve as a Fed governor in the central bank's 108-year history. She has spent years studying developing economies, many of which struggled with high inflation. Mr. Jefferson would be only the fourth Black man appointed to the board. The bulk of his research, like Ms. Cook's, has been about inequality and poverty. It's mind-boggling that some have attempted to question whether the Fed needs this kind of expertise. Black unemployment has often been double White unemployment 
, and Americans without college educations are often 
 after crises. This is not the economy Americans should accept.
[...]
These three nominees are ready to help lead the Fed and bolster its credibility. The Senate should move quickly to put them in place.