President Biden and Vice President Harris delivered results for the American people in their first year in office. The President and Vice President made history growing our economy, addressing the climate crisis, and building a judiciary and government that represents America. Despite unprecedented challenges, 2021 was a year of record progress for working families.
 President Biden's first year was the greatest year of job creation in American history, with more than 6 million jobs created.
 The unemployment rate dropped from 6.2% when Biden took office to 3.9%, the biggest single year drop in American history.
 The average number of Americans filing for unemployment has been near its lowest level since 1969. When the President took office, over 18 million were receiving unemployment benefits, today only 2 million are—also the biggest single year drop in history.
 Most significant by economic impact of any first-year president.
: Experts estimate the lowest child poverty rate ever in 2021.
 Nearly 5 million Americans have newly gained health insurance coverage.
 The number of households reporting that they sometimes or often did not have enough food to eat dropped by 32%.
More judges confirmed to lower federal courts than any president since President Kennedy.
More Black women appointed to the U.S. Court of Appeals than any president – even over 8 years – in history.
First majority non-white Cabinet in history, with most women in the Cabinet, including first woman Treasury Secretary, first LGBTQ+ and Native American Cabinet officials, and first woman Director of National Intelligence.
 Largest investments ever in the power grid, electric vehicle chargers, and climate resilience.
: Largest investment and national, bipartisan plan to get safe and clean drinking water to all Americans.
: Strongest vehicle emissions standards ever to save drivers money at the pump and reduce pollution.
 First-ever approvals of large-scale offshore wind projects.
Most diverse Administration in history – most women, people of color, disability, LGBTQ+, first generation American, and first-generation college graduates.