Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon. Quiet day here at the White House.
Just got the 2-minute warning for the daily briefing.
Jen Psaki's briefing began at 12:19, ended at 12:52.
Motorcade is rolling at 1:41 pm for OTR, destination unknown (to the pool). Potus spotted walking from oval to motorcade carrying red folder. He was wearing a suit, no overcoat.
Motorcade arrived 1:51 pm at Honey Made, a small business
Drive was uneventful, motorcade traveled at low key pace, albeit running red lights.
Potus entered the small shop at 1:53. Chatted with woman who may be owner, out of earshot of pool.
"I'll be darn" he said.
Mentioned Grandson out in California. Potus examined merchandise, selects a small sweatshirt.
Potus greets worker at cash register.
Owner explains shop has crafts, "most of the s
The reason so many small businesses are opening up is it's domestically sourced, he said
Owner was a physicist and engineer before she opened store, Potus said.
"You need a degree in physics to be able to do thjs" he did
Potus admired delicate necklaces on wall.
Who's that for? A pooler asked
"My wife"
Potus examined coaster with German shepherd pictured, sets it down. Picks up mug with Kamala Harris on it. "I'll get this one too"
Q Ukraine
No change in Russian posture of forces
Along Belarus border
"I made it clear to Putin early on if he went into Ukraine there would be consequences"
I don't think his people even know for sure what he's going to do
Forces in high alert are part of a nato operation
We have an article 5 obligation
I've spoken to every one kd our nato Allie's, we are all in the same page
Q decision on deploying troops
May move some in the nearer term
It's provocative
It's just what I said
From Otter:
So everyone from Poland on us has a reason to be concerned about what would happen and what spillover effects could occur. We have no intention of putting American forces or NATO forces in Ukraine. But we I said they're going to be serious economic consequences if he moves. can you tell me what do you think sir, that the risk of an invasion is increasing or decreasing or steady just as it has been these recently.
….
There's not gonna be any American forces in Ukraine
Please check transcript
More TK
Pool was ushered out at 207. Potus stayed in store
Potus exited the store at about 2:12 pm, chatted with folks on sidewalk, walked across street to the Marine Barracks, greeted Marines on sidewalk.
Potus Walked down the sidewalk, pool walking ahead.
Next stop: Jeni's Ice Creams. Potus entered shop at 2:20 pm. Pool holding on sidewalk
Potus exited Jeni's at 2:25, holding chocolate (by appearance) ice cream cone. 2 scoops - light colored flavor on bottom, darker ice cream on top. Waved the cone at the pool and went straight to the beast. Rolling at 2:28
Motorcade arrived at WH at 2:37 pm after uneventful drive from the Hill.
Potus walked back into the Oval Office after return in motorcade.
From WH press office (apologies for failing to see/send this sooner):
This afternoon, the President is visiting local small business Honey Made, owned by Viboonrattana "Moo" Honey. Honey Made opened its doors in 2021, which highlights the tremendous growth in new small business applications since the start of the Biden-Harris administration.
A travel/photo lid was called at 3:05 pm.
For the record: We were in the Navy Yard neighborhood, on Barracks Row.
For pix of Potus during walkabout, check my Twitter: @linda_feldmann
Enjoy the rest of the day!
Travel/photo lid called at 3:06 pm, not 3:05 as previously reported