Pool Reports by 
, 
Your pooler here, reporting from the White House on the one-year anniversary of President Biden's inauguration.
Today, the president and vice president will meet with an infrastructure task force in the morning. Then, in the afternoon, the president meets with his science and technology council. In the evening, both the president and vice president will deliver remarks via livestream to a DNC event. Jen Psaki will brief in the afternoon. The full schedule, if you don't have it, is below.
Washington is cold and wet.
[RSVP here by 8:00 AM]
The press pool is preparing to head up to the Cabinet Room, where the aforementioned infrastructure meeting is about to commence.
I will of course convey any remarks the president makes to which we are privy.
Press were led into the Cabinet Room at 11:21 am.
President Biden addressed the Ukraine situation before the infrastructure meeting commenced. Transcript coming.
Infrastructure coordinator Mitch Landrieu also spoke, though not about Ukraine. Excerpts from his remarks are coming, too.
Present at the meeting were the following officials, according to a White House official:
In attendance at the President and Vice President's meeting with members of the Cabinet Infrastructure Implementation Task Force:
- Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator, Task Force Co-Chair
- Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council, Task Force Co-Chair
- Deb Haaland, Secretary of the Interior
- Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce
- Marty Walsh, Secretary of Labor
- Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
- Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Administrator
- Shalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget
- Kiran Ahuja, Director of the Office of Personnel Management
- Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
- Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
- Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
- Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
- Brenda Mallory, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality
- Asma Mirza, Deputy for Infrastructure Implementation Management
- Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
- Evan Ryan, Deputy Assistant to the President & Cabinet Secretary
- Samantha Silverberg, Deputy Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
- Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
- Mike Pyle, Special Assistant to the President & Chief Economic Advisor for the Vice President
President Biden made the following comments on the border between Russia and Ukraine, in an apparent effort to clarify remarks he made the previous evening regarding a potential U.S. response to an expected Russian incursion.
"I've been absolutely clear with President Putin. He has no misunderstanding: Any, any assembled Russian units move across the Ukrainian border, that is an invasion."
That invasion would be met with a "severe and coordinated economic response," the president said, which has been "laid out very clearly for President Putin."
"Let there be no doubt at all: If Putin makes this choice, Russia will pay a heavy price."
He also acknowledged that Russia could "use measures other than overt military actions," including "paramilitary tactics" and other methods of warfare. Referencing Russia's incursion into the Donbass region, where such methods were in evidence, Biden warned of "gray zone attacks" undertaken by "Russian soldiers not wearing Russian uniform."
'We have to be ready to be respond to these as well."
Biden concluded his remarks on Ukraine by telling Kiev it "has a right to be" confident of U.S. support.
Lunch lid was called at 11:46 am, to last until 1:15 pm.
After President Biden clarified his stance on Ukraine, he turned to the subject at hand: infrastructure.
Excerpts below.
Passage of the infrastructure law last year was evidence, Biden said, that "Democrat and Republican can actually work together to get something done."
"And by implementing it efficiently and effectively, we're going to demonstrate and government also can work for people-- efficiently and effectively."
"In just two months, the investments are underway to modernize our roads, our bridges, our ports, our airports, our rail, delivering high speed internet and clean water... as well as strengthening the energy grid."
"The list goes on. Up until now, our nation has never fully made this kind of investment."
"Detail matters, execution matters."
Biden then turned the meeting over to his infrastructure coordinator, former New Orleans mayor Mitch Landrieu, whom Biden called "my buddy."
Landrieu's remarks will come in a separate note.
[
]
A double-masked Mitch Landrieu opened the infrastructure meeting with remarks, upon the conclusion of which at 11:28 am, the press pool was led out of the Cabinet Room, despite the noble but ultimately futile efforts of my colleagues to continue questioning the president.
Landrieu said the meeting (attendees are listed in a previous report; #3, if memory serves) about to begin was the seventh since passage of what he described of as "the largest infrastructure investment in generations.
"You asked us not just to rebuild America," Landrieu said, "you asked us to rebuild a better America," one he described as rife with "good paying union jobs" and resurgent "domestic manufacturing."
"It also means not doing anything without a sense of equity, and an understanding that we can't go forward if we can't go forward together, because diversity is this nation's greatest strength."
Landrieu also referenced "the treemendous challenges we have with climate and resilience and sustainability," while also promising "accountability and transparency," including working with the relevant inspectors general to see funds properly disbursed "to regain the public trust with all that stuff."
"We're ready to get the job done," Landrieu said. Then the press left and the meeting began.
Per WH official:
"The President and Vice President's meeting with members of the Cabinet Infrastructure Implementation Task Force ended at 12:27 PM."
Jen Psaki will brief at 1:45pm, not 1:30pm as planned.
We have a two-minute warning for the White House press briefing.
Jen Psaki walked into the briefing at 1: 52 pm, accompanied by her chief deputy, Karine Jean-Pierre.
You can watch here:
The White House press briefing concluded at 2:35 pm, with a question about future presidential press conferences.
"Bring snacks next time," press secretary Jen Psaki said in response, in what one hopes was a genuine invitation but was more likely made in jest.
The pool has gathered outside the West Wing and is now moving towards the EEOB, where the president will be meeting with his technology council.
For the president's meeting with his technology and science council
Present at the meeting, now about to begin in the South Court Auditorium, according to WH staffer:
Dr. Eric Lander, Assistant to the President & Director of Office of Science and Technology Policy
Dr. Frances Arnold, President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology Co-Chair
Dr. Maria Zuber, President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology Co-Chair
The meeting began at 4:10 pm with remarks by Eric Lander, followed by remarks by the president. The president did not answer shouted questions.
[
]
As we were leaving the auditorium, Jacqui Heinrich of Fox News shouted the following question at the president: "Why are you waiting on Putin to make the first move, sir?"
The president's response was captured by audio engineers and went as follows: "What a stupid question."
Eric Lander opened the meeting. "I know how passionate you are about science and technology," he told the president. "It's one of those powerful drivers of progress for the lives of all Americans."
For his part, the president said that "science is back--back in vogue."
"I am a big fan of this council," he said before telling a favorite story about his travels with President Xi Jinping of China, when both were vice presidents. The story ends with Biden defining the United States in a single word, per Xi's request: "Possibility."
"It's essential that science and scientific integrity are taken seriously and are the center of what we're about as a nation. And scientists have a seat at the table every day. And that's why this council to me, at least, is so important--but I think it's going to be so important to the United States and the world."
Biden said he was looking forward to hearing about work being done in several areas, in particular "around addressing disparities in our public health system, meeting the threat of climate change and extreme weather, ensuring America's global leadership" and winning "the competition in the 21st century."
"Looking forward to seeing all of you in person," Biden told the many members of the council who, unlike its leaders, were attending over video link.
Tonight's DNC event, at which both the president and vice president will give remarks, is open to the press press. Here's the link for anyone interested in attending:
President Biden addressed the DNC grassroots town hall. His remarks began at 7:21 pm. He followed VP Harris, whose own address was marred by technical difficulties. The president spoke for almost exactly nine minutes.
Biden noted that he'd been in office for exactly a year: "though sometimes it seems longer, doesn't it, Kamala?"
"It's been a year of challenges," he said, as well as of "enormous progress."
He noted some of his achievements, 210 million people vaccinated and 3.9 percent unemployment rate foremost among them.
"We're focused on delivering for the American people," he said, outlining both measures in his infrastructure package, which already passed Congress, and aspects of the Build Back Better agenda, which remains in limbo.
He reiterated the claim that nobody earning below $400,000 would "pay a penny more in taxes."
"Together, we're gonna stand up to the Big Lie and the Republican efforts [at] voter suppression and election subversion--that's what they're doing."
"We know it's still a very tough time for Americans. COVID-19, after two years, has worn people down. And inflation has taken a bite out of people's pocketbooks."
"We have unity in the Democratic Party. Forty-eight of the 50 Democrats vote with me on everything and the other vote with me on 80% of everything."
"What are Republicans for? What are they for?...They don't stand for anything--except to stop us."
"This election in 2022 is critical. We have to keep control of the House and Senate and expand our majority."
Near the conclusion of his remarks, Biden described an "overwhelming regret" -- that the pandemic had prevented from inviting DNC members to the White House.
He ended by invoking the struggle between democracy and autocracy to which he has frequently referred when discussing his domestic agenda.