Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'm your pooler today.
The pool is scheduled to gather shortly for President Biden's arrival on the South Lawn at approximately 10:30.
From WH on Biden's meeting this afternoon:
Today, President Biden will meet with the Competition Council and highlight the Administration's continued efforts to lower prices for Americans as laid out in the July 2021 Competition Executive Order, from meat, to hearing aids, to the right to repair your own devices.
So far, the Competition Council has had a 100% success rate in meeting every deadline specified in the EO.
The Competition EO laid out that the Council would meet twice a year:
Pool is gathering momentarily for Biden's arrival, which is now expected around 10:45.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 10:46.
Returning from Camp David with the President:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goephert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
A lunch lid has been called until 1:30pm.
We just received the two minute warning for Jen Psaki's briefing. It will be televised.
From a White House official:
The President's secure video call with European leaders began at 3:05 PM EST and ended at 3:25 PM EST.
WH initially sent the wrong time. Here's the update:
The President's secure video call with European leaders began at 3:05 PM EST and ended at 4:25 PM EST.
Pool was brought to the East Room at 4:50 for Biden's meeting with his Competition Council. Much of the cabinet was milling about. (See pool report #1 for full attendance list.)
Tables are set up in a rectangle that stretches most of the room. There are two screens showing the words "competition for a stronger economy" at the head of the table. Everyone is masked.
Attendees took their seats by 5 and POTUS walked in at 5:09.
More to come.
Biden sat down and said "It's good to see you all. Let's have a cabinet meeting."
Biden talked about his competition executive order. Said economy is being held back by consolidation.
"Rather than competing for customers they're consuming their competitors."
Biden talked about some of the 72 actions in the EO, including the creation of this council.
"In six months since i issued the order we've hit every deadline so far."
Biden talked about the right to repair - when consumers are trapped into going to the seller and paying their prices to repair devices. Biden said FTC is ramping up enforcement against illegal repair restrictions. He says many companies voluntarily changed policies, including Apple and Microsoft letting people repair phones and computers themselves. "Although I'm not sure I know how to do that."
Biden talks about new FTC rule making it possible for hearing aids to be sold over the counter without a prescription. He said he expects this to drop costs from thousands of dollars to hundreds of dollars.
More to come.
(I should note I'm typing quickly on my phone so excuse typos, if any)
Biden talked about the harm of mergers on small businesses and consumers.
He touched on a number of issues from food prices to non-compete clauses workers are forced to sign.
"All designed to keep wages down and prices up."
"Our economy shouldn't be about people working for capitalism, if should be about capitalism working for people."
Asked About Ukraine says he had a "very, very good meeting. Total unanimity with all the European leaders."
Press are escorted out without him taking any more questions.
Your pooler could not make out what Biden said over the shouting in the room at the time, but would direct your attention to video of the event if you are curious how the president really feels about being asked about inflation from Fox's Peter Doocy.
A colorful day at the White House comes to an end as a travel/photo lid is called at 5:58 pm. Have a good one, everyone.