Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House.
It's a chilly 38 degrees, with a beautiful sunrise through partly cloudy skies.
Coming up: President Biden and Vice President Harris will travel to the U.S. Capitol to mark the one-year anniversary of the 1/6 Capitol riot.
They are scheduled to deliver remarks in Statuary Hall during the program that starts at 9 a.m. ET. Their speeches will be streamed here: 
ICYMI: The White House has passed along this excerpt from POTUS' prepared remarks...
Press Secretary Jen Psaki's press briefing is scheduled for 1 p.m. ET.
POTUS motorcade is on the move to the Capitol as of 8:45 am.
Pool was already loaded into van before POTUS exited the White House.
POTUS arrived at the US Capitol at 8:54 a.m. after an uneventful motorcade from the White House. A few onlookers along the way but very heavy left enforcement presence.
POTUS and VPOTUS entered Statuary Hall at 9:07 a.m.
VP Harris will speak first.
A large, round black stage has been placed in the middle of Statuary Hall and stage lighting has been erected. Otherwise mostly sparse. Photo of before POTUS entrance available here: 
Again, remarks will be streamed on the White House website.
Greeting the President upon arrival to the Capitol:
VP remarks wrapped at 9:15 am
In addition to reflecting on 1/6, she noted efforts to pass voting rights legislation.
Harris introduced Biden then walked out of Statuary Hall (with security detail) as the President began his remarks.
Biden’s remarks now underway are being streamed on the White House website.
POTUS wrapped his speech at 9:41 a.m. and exited a very quiet statuary hall.
Biden didn't mention Trump by name but stingingly rebuked the former president during speech, noting during 1/6 Trump didn't respond "for hours" as crowd attacked the Capitol on 1/6 and Trump's continued claims about the election.
"He can't accept he lost." "He's not just a former president, he's a defeated former president … there is zero proof the election results were inaccurate."
Biden: "The way forward is to recognize the truth and live by it."
Please check with transcript or playback of video as pool is standing room only and it's a bit echo-y in Statuary Hall.
The president's motorcade arrived back at the White House at 10:08 a.m. Pool did not see Biden.
We have a lunch lid until 12:45 PM, and Press Secretary briefing scheduled at 1 p.m.
The White House press briefing is now scheduled for 1:30 p.m., and lunch lid has been extended to that time.
2 minutes until briefing.
Briefing has begun.
WH called a lid at 2:41 p.m. Hope you enjoy the rest of your afternoon!