Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'll be your White House pool reporter for today. The president's schedule for the day is copied at the bottom of this email. Note the meeting with Sens. Durbin and Grassley is now open to the pool for a spray at the beginning, and the briefing is now at 2 p.m.
If you have any questions for the briefing, or in general, feel free to send them my way.
Pool was called to gather at 1:29 p.m. for the spray at the start of the president's meeting with the vice president and Sens. Durbin and Grassley. Will send updates./td>
Pool entered the Oval Office at 1:56 p.m. and was ushered out at 1:59. Biden did not take questions. Check quotes against video/transcript.
POTUS and VP Harris were seated in chairs in the Oval, with Durbin and Grassley on couches to either side of them. Biden did not wear a mask as he spoke.
"The Constitution says 'advise and consent, advice and consent,' and I'm serious when I say I want the advice of the Senate as well as the consent."
Speaking of what he's looking for in a nominee:
"I'm looking for a candidate with character, with qualities of a judge in terms of being courteous to the folks before them and terating people with respect, as well as a judicial philosophy that... there are unenumerated rights in the Constitution, and all the amendments mean something, including the Ninth Amendment."
Reiterated he plans to make a decision by the end of the month, and said he was looking forward to hearing the advice of Durbin and Grassley. POTUS did not respond to questions over shouting from aides ushering pool out of the room.
Two-minute warning for the press briefing with Jen Psaki.
Video of the Oval spray here: 
And cleaning up one typo in previous report:
"I'm looking for a candidate with character, with qualities of a judge in terms of being courteous to the folks before them and 
 people with respect, as well as a judicial philosophy that is more one that suggests that are unenumerated rights to the Constitution."
The press briefing began at 2:26 p.m. You can watch it here: 
The press office called a travel/photo lid at 4 p.m.
Pool has not received a readout/timing update on the president's meeting with Sens. Durbin and Grassley, but would note both senators were interviewed by congressional reporters on the Hill while the White House briefing was happening.
Have a great rest of the day!