Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon. The in-town pool is headed in advance to Mt. Vernon, where the First Couple is attending the National Governors Association's Black Tie Dinner.
The president's departure from the White House is scheduled for 5:20 p.m. and will be covered by the supplemental pool.
The in-town pool vans left for Mt. Vernon at 4:14. The pool will cover the president's arrival at Mt. Vernon, expected around 5:30 p.m. and his departure, expected around 7:25 p.m. The event is closed press.
Please let me know if you have any questions.
The pool arrived at Mt. Vernon at 4:46 p.m. after an uneventful but lovely ride along the Potomac. The pool is holding in a conference room at Mt. Vernon until POTUS arrives.
Marine One touched down on a patch of land in front of Mt. Vernon at 5:44 p.m., kicking up plenty of dirt and leaves on this wintry night.
POTUS came down first, saluted and then turned to help FLOTUS climb down the stairs. They then boarded a golf cart and were led to the Ford Orientation Center by a golf cart motorcade.
The event is closed press.
The pool was too far away to hear - or ask - anything.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Mount Vernon, Virginia:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Kate Marshall, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor for Governors in the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Per the WH, the President and the First Lady are participating in a photo line in the Ford Orientation Center at Mount Vernon with the Governors and their guests, including:
Governor Asa Hutchinson (AR), NGA Chair and Susan Burrell Hutchinson, Spouse
Governor Phil Murphy (NJ), NGA Vice Chair and Tammy Snyder Murphy, Spouse
Governor Doug Ducey (AZ) Angela Ducey, Spouse
Governor Jared Polis (CO)
Governor Ned Lamont (CT) and Annie Lamont, Spouse
Governor John Carney (DE) and Tracey Quillen Carney, Spouse
Governor Lou Leon Guerrero (Guam) and Jeffrey Cook, Spouse
Governor David Ige (HI) Dawn Amano-Ige, Spouse
Governor Brad Little (ID)
Governor John Bel Edwards (LA)
Governor Janet Mills (ME)
Governor Larry Hogan (MD) and Yumi Hogan, Spouse
Governor Charlie Baker (MA) Lauren Baker, Spouse
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)
Governor Greg Gianforte (MT) and Susan Gianforte, Spouse
Governor Pete Ricketts (NE) and Susanne Shore, Spouse
Governor Steve Sisolak (NV) and Kathy Sisolak, Spouse
Governor Chris Sununu (NH)
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM)
Governor Kathy Hochul (NY) and Bill Hochul, Spouse
Governor Roy Cooper (NC) and Kristin Cooper, Spouse
Governor Doug Burgum (ND) and Kathryn Burgum, Spouse
Governor Mike DeWine (OH) and Fran DeWine, Spouse
Governor Kate Brown (OR) and Dan Little, Spouse
Governor Tom Wolf (PA) and Frances Wolf, Spouse
Governor Pedro Pierluisi (PR)
Governor Dan McKee (RI) and Susan McKee, Spouse
Governor Henry McMaster (SC)
Governor Albert Bryan (VI) and Yolanda Cabodevilla Bryan, Spouse
Governor Spencer Cox (UT) and Abby Cox, Spouse
Governor Glenn Youngkin (VA) and Suzanne Youngkin, Spouse
Governor Tony Evers (WI) and Kathy Evers, Spouse
Governor Mark Gordon (WY) and Anne Gordon, Spouse
Governor Kevin Stitt (OK) and Sarah Stitt, Spouse
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One slightly ahead of schedule, at 6:59. They arrived at the helicopter by golf car motorcade, boarded and then departed promptly thereafter, at 7:03.
Night has fallen and the area from where we watched the departure was poorly lit. But from what I could see, the First Lady boarded Marine One first, followed by the President. They wore dark coats but it was far too dark to make out anything more specific.
Per the WH, the President’s remarks at the National Governors Association’s Black Tie Dinner began at 6:36 PM and ended at 6:50 PM.He did not eat dinner while at the event.
Also from the WH, Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 7:21.
The pool vans are still en route to the White House from Mt. Vernon, but, given the lid, that’s all from me.
Have a good night!
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi everyone. I’ll be your supplemental pooler for the President and First Lady’s departure from and arrival back to the White House this evening. The in-town pool is on location in Mt. Vernon, while the supplemental pool is gathered on the plot of pavement outside the Palm Room doors ahead of Marine One’s scheduled 5:20 PM departure. At 6:00 PM, POTUS and FLOTUS are scheduled to attend the National Governors Association’s Black Tie Dinner, which is closed press. They are scheduled to arrive back at the WH at 7:35 PM.
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged, holding hands, from the Residence at 5:28 PM, their black tie garments peeking out from underneath their overcoats (including what appeared to be Dior sling-backs for FLOTUS — super cute, in your supplemental pooler’s opinion). POTUS gave subtle indications that he heard shouted questions about the Supreme Court and Donald Trump, but ultimately ignored any temptation to respond as he made his way across the South Lawn. Marine One took off at 5:33 PM.
Traveling on Marine One, per the WH:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Supplemental pool was led through the Palm Room doors at 7:05 PM for Marine One’s arrival, which is expected ahead of schedule, at about 7:15 PM.
Marine One’s cabin was illuminated as it hovered above the South Lawn in the dark, and passengers dressed in black tie could be seen through the windows. Touchdown was 7:15 PM. POTUS exited first, at 7:17 PM, holding his coat draped over his left arm. FLOTUS exited just behind him. As they crossed the South Lawn together, they waved several times in the direction of the assembled press, but did not stop for questions. They entered the Residence at 7:18 PM.
A lid was called at 7:21 PM.
That’s all, folks!