Today, the Department of Interior announced that $1.15 billion in funding from President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is?available for states to assist with cleaning up orphaned oil and gas wells that are hazardous to the health and safety of communities across the country. Plugging these wells will not only reduce methane emissions and stop dangerous pollution, but it will create good-paying, union jobs and spur economic revitalization, especially in hard-hit energy communities.
The funding announced today is a part of the $4.7 billion orphan wells clean up program established under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and will be available to states to identify and plug orphaned wells, remediate and reclaim lands impacted by oil and gas development activities, and remove infrastructure associated with the wells. The 26 states eligible for this funding collectively represent nearly every state with documented orphan wells in the country. State-by-state funding totals can be found 
 
[Tik Root, 1/31/22]
The White House on Monday announced new steps to help curb emissions of methane, saying it will send $1.15 billion to states to clean up thousands of orphaned oil and gas wells that leak the powerful planet-warming gas. 
"This is good for our climate, for the health of our communities, and for American workers," Haaland said. 
And, an analysis by the Environmental Defense Fund and McGill University found that about 9 million people in the United States live within a mile of an orphaned well. As recently as 2018, the Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the number could actually be as high as 2 million to 3 million.
[1/31/22]
The Biden administration on Monday said it would make $1.15 billion available to states to clean up abandoned oil and gas wells as part of a broad effort to reduce U.S. climate warming emissions and improve health and safety in nearby communities. 
The White House said 26 states were eligible to apply for the funding, or nearly every state that has documented orphaned wells, defined as wells with an owner that is either unknown or insolvent … 
They include a Department of Transportation initiative to require pipeline operators to reduce methane emissions across their systems, and a Department of Energy program to offer technical assistance to well plugging efforts.
[Ella Nilsen, 1/31/22]
The Biden administration is taking steps to cut emissions of methane, a potent, planet-warming gas. Addressing methane emissions — which can come from old, leaking oil and gas wells and poorly maintained natural gas pipes — has been a priority for President Joe Biden, who last year pledged to slash fossil fuel emissions in an effort to mitigate the climate crisis. 
[1/31/22]
The U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) will allocate to Louisiana $47,396,249 in Phase One formula funding and initial grants to plug and restore orphaned oil and gas wells. 
… According to Senator Bill Cassidy, Louisiana could also be eligible to receive further funding through the bipartisan infrastructure bill's $1.5 billion state Performance Grant program. "I've heard from communities across Louisiana about the environmental and safety hazards of orphan wells," Cassidy said. 
[Rachel Hernandez, 1/31/22]
 The Department of the Interior (DOI) announced $1.15 billion is available to states to create jobs cleaning up the wells across the country. DOI leaders said the orphaned wells pollute surrounding areas, and millions of Americans live within one mile of them. They expect the funding to create union jobs, catalyze economic growth and reduce methane leaks."
[Tierna Unruh-Enos, 1/31/22]
The Department [of Interior] today released the amount of funding that states are eligible to apply for in Phase One, which includes up to $25 million in Initial Grant funding. New Mexico is eligible for up to $25 million. "The Department is taking a thoughtful and methodical approach to implementing the orphaned oil and gas well program that aims to get money to states as quickly as possible while being responsible stewards of taxpayer dollars. We are committed to ensuring states receive investments equitably and based on data-driven needs," added Haaland. These resources will allow state officials to begin building out their plugging programs, remediating high-priority wells, and collecting additional data regarding the number of orphaned wells in their states…. 
[1/31/22]
Governor Tom Wolf announced Monday that Pennsylvania has been awarded its initial allocation of $25 million, and will receive a total of $104 million, from President Joe Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to plug orphaned and abandoned wells in Pennsylvania. In addition to reducing pollution, the funding will support the creation of new, good-paying jobs related to the cleanup. 
 "Addressing Pennsylvania's orphaned and abandoned gas and oil wells will not only support our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but it will create a cleaner local ecosystem at each well site and energize the economy of our entire commonwealth."
[1/31/22]
U.S. Senators Joe Manchin and Shelley Moore Capito and Representative David McKinley announced over $141 million for abandoned wells…. 