Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new efforts to ease port congestion and restore disrupted shipping services for American farmers and agricultural producers. Specifically, the U.S. Department of Agriculture is partnering with the Port of Oakland to set up a new 25-acre "pop-up" site to make it easier for agricultural companies to fill empty shipping containers with commodities, like American soybeans, dairy, and specialty crops, such as nuts and fruit. These actions build on the Administration's efforts to support America's farmers and address pandemic-induced supply chain challenges. Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are upgrading critical infrastructure to ensure that Americans can get to work and goods can get from ship to shelf.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture said on Sunday it will help fund a new container yard for agricultural exports at California's Port of Oakland, as the government, ports and food companies scramble to ease costly shipping delays.
The Agriculture Department said on Monday that it would increase capacity at the Port of Oakland in California as part of a bid to address supply chain disruptions.
The Agriculture Department said Monday it will help pay for a new project at California's Port of Oakland in an effort to help clear backlogs of U.S. agricultural exports that are facing shipping disruptions.
The USDA announced Monday plans to help fund a new 25-acre container yard at the Port of Oakland to try help farmers get their rice, beef, pork, almonds, hay and other agricultural commodities into containers and on to ships.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced on Jan. 30 that it will help fund a new container yard at California's Port of Oakland in an effort to tackle ongoing shipping delays.
The USDA announced today that it will partner with the Port of Oakland to create a 25-acre "pop-up site," allowing agricultural companies more space to fill their shipping containers and get products moving.
 The supply chain issues are at the forefront of issues caused by the pandemic. In an effort to relieve congestion at the ports, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced plans to increase capacity at the Port of Oakland in Oakland, California and improve service for shippers of U.S. grown agricultural commodities.
 "COVID-19 revealed vulnerabilities across our supply system, both at our ports and in the agricultural sector," explains Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack.
 The "pop-up" concept has moved from shopping malls to shipping yards. The US Department of Agriculture has joined an initiative by the Port of Oakland to create a 25-acre pop-up site for agricultural companies to fill empty containers which will help relieve congestion at the port.
U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack announced plans to increase capacity at the Port of Oakland in Oakland, Calif., and improve service for shippers of U.S. grown agricultural commodities, USDA said in a release.
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack Monday announced plans to increase capacity at California's Port of Oakland and improve service for shippers of U.S. grown agricultural commodities. 
Reuters is reporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture will help fund a new container yard for agricultural exports at the Port of Oakland in California amid shipping delays that are hurting food companies.
USDA is partnering with the Port of Oakland to set up a new 25-acre "pop-up" site to make it easier for agricultural companies to fill empty shipping containers with commodities.
 Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced plans to increase capacity at the port of Oakland in Oakland, CA, and improve service for shippers of U.S.-grown agricultural commodities.
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg Monday announced a plan for the Port of Oakland to speed up agricultural exports. The Department of Agriculture is partnering with the Port of Oakland to set up a new 25-acre "pop-up" site to make it easier for agricultural companies to fill empty shipping containers with commodities.
 Reporter: Well, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has a new plan to get U.S. agricultural goods flowing through the Port of Oakland. It's working with the Transportation Department to open a 25 acre pop-up site for empty shipping containers.
Reporter: The Ag department said it would help fund a new container yard for agriculture exports at California's Port of Oakland as the government, ports, and food companies scramble to ease these costly shipping delays. The multimillion-dollar project is set to open in March. The Port of Oakland will open a 25 acre pop-up site to provide space to prepare empty containers, according to the USDA, and that will move containers and store them for rapid pick up.
 Reporter: Now the Port of Oakland will open a 25 acre pop up site to provide the space for empty containers, kind of get them out of the way, and they will move those containers and store them for rapid pick up as well.
Reporter: Well, the Ag Department said it will help fund a new container yard for agriculture exports at California's Port of Oakland. And this as food companies scrambled to ease costly shipping delays, which have been one of the things driving up food prices.
Reporter: Many of these carriers have suspended service to the Port of Oakland, according to USDA, so this pop-up site, this 25 acre pop-up site, could make it easier for Ag companies to fill empty shipping containers and send them overseas. And that should begin in early March.
Reporter: Ag Secretary Tom Vilsack has announced plans to increase capacity at the Port of Oakland in Oakland, California and improve service for shippers of U.S.-grown agricultural commodities. USDA is partnering with the Port of Oakland to set up a new 25 acre pop-up site to make it easier for agricultural companies to fill empty shipping containers with commodities.
 The USDA is partnering with the Port of Oakland to better improve the movement of ag exports out of the U.S. A new 25-acre "pop-up" site is being created to help ag commodities fill empty shipping containers on site.
To help ease the backup, the Department of Transportation and the Department of Agriculture are teaming up for a 25-acre site at Howard Terminal that will do nothing but stage empty containers, specifically for farmers looking to get their goods out of the country.