 Happy New Year!
 Mr. President——
President Biden, what did you convey on your call with Vladimir Putin?
 [
]—of their homes?
 I made it clear to the—President Putin that if he makes any more moves and goes into Ukraine, we will have severe sanctions. We will increase our presence in Europe with our NATO allies, and it will just to be a heavy price to pay for it.
Did you get the sense that he is any less likely to invade Ukraine after your conversation?
 What I got the sense of is that he has agreed that we would have three major conferences in Europe beginning in the middle of the month with our senior staffs that relate to the OSCE, the Russia-NATO Council, as well as continuation of discussions on our strategic doctrine. And so he did not disagree with any of that.
And he laid out some of his concerns about NATO and the United States and Europe, and we laid out ours. And we said we'd begin to negotiate some of those issues. But I made it clear that they only could work if in fact he deescalated, not escalated, the situation there.
Do you expect more concrete progress after the talks in January?
 Well, I always expect, if you negotiate you make progress, but we'll see. We'll see.
Thanks.
Does Russia face sanctions if he keeps troops at the border?
 I'm not going to negotiate here in public, but we made it clear that he cannot—I emphasize "cannot"—move on Ukraine.
Thank you.
 [
]
Do you have a response on the news of Betty White?
 That's a shame. She was a lovely lady. Always was.
 Who didn't love Betty White? [
] We're so sad about her death.
 Ninety-nine years old.
 Yes.
 As my mother would say, God love her.
 Yes.
It's incredible.
 We loved her.
Any New Year's resolutions?
 Not yet. [
]
 I'm going to try to earn her—more love, you know? [
] I mean, everybody knows that I love her more than she loves me. [
] We work on it hard. Anyway——
Will you travel to Colorado?
 Say it again?
Will you travel to Colorado?
 I may very well. We'll see.
Thank you.
Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President.
 By the way, I had a long talk with the Governor this morning. We've initiated additional help for the Governor. But at any rate——
Thank you, Mr. President.