Pool Reports by 
, 
Why yes this a 4 AM pool email. I'm your Pooler for VP Harris' day trip to the inauguration of the new president of Honduras. The pool was tested yesterday and have gone through security and are waiting on Air Force Two for The arrival of Marine Two.
We just spotted Samantha Power, USAID Administrator who walked into the lounge alone, said hello and walked into the area where the delegation is hanging out after we pointed her there.
Below is the schedule from the guidance:
At 
, the Vice President will depart Washington, DC en route Palmerola, Honduras. The departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at Soto Cano Air Base will be covered by the travel pool.
At 
 the Vice President will attend the Inauguration Ceremony for President-elect Xiomara Castro of the Republic of Honduras. The Inauguration Ceremony at the National Stadium of Tegucigalpa will be open press.
At
 the Vice President will hold a bilateral meeting with President Xiomara Castro of the Republic of Honduras. There will be a pool spray at the top of this meeting in the Presidential Palace.
At 
 the Vice President will depart Palmerola, Honduras en route Washington, DC.The departure from Soto Cano Air Base and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the travel pool
The Vice President landed at 4:16 at JBA. She waved to press under the info of the plane as she got on the plane at 4:21. We took off at 4:34.
On background from WH official:
The Vice President of the United States arrived at Joint Base Andrews for her visit to Honduras. Upon arrival, she was greeted by a Presidential Delegation including Lt. Col. Tom Fritz, Director Flight Line Protocol, C-40B Pilot, Congressman Raul Ruiz (D-CA-36), Ambassador Samantha Power, USAID Administrator, Jose Fernandez, Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs Ambassador Giffords, Chief of Protocol and Brian Nichols, Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs.
Air Force Two landed at 7:52 in Honduras after a pretty uneventful ride.
Vice President Harris walked off the plane around 8:08. We are taking helicopters to the next stop. Below is from a WH official.
Greeters:
- Ambassador Vania Garcia Morales, Ministerial Advisor, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Honduras
- Colonel Chris Pateras, U.S. Senior Defense Official, Defense Attaché, U.S. Embassy Tegucigalpa
Press and staff helos landed at 8:36. Vice President Harris landed at 8:44. We are at theHernán Acosta Meijía Air Force Base (Base HAM) Tegucigalpa, Honduras. It’s a military school.
There are members of the military dressed in the dress blues with what blue and red hats. A red carpet was unfurled for the VP when the helicopters landed.
When she walked out she was greeted (names below) and put her hand on her heart and nodded her head as she was introduced to each person.
She walked down the red carpet with Amb Ramon Valladares between military students and waved to the crowd of press and other students. She did answer shouted questions we couldn’t hear a word of it since a helicopter was circling overhead. Checking with the TV folks to try and get some of the audio.
Harris got into a Chevy with the American and Honduran flags on them.
From the WH: Vice President Harris exits helicopter for a ceremonial greet by Amb. Ramon Valladares, Honduras Chief of Protocol.
Greeters:
- Mr. Eduardo Enrique Reina, Foreign Minister Designate & Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro
- Mr. Héctor Zelaya Castro, Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro
- Mr. Jose Manuel Zelaya Castro, Representative of President-Elect Xiomara Castro
- Colonel Marco Tulio Gonzales, Base HAM Base Commander, Honduras
People lined the streets with their cameras out as the motorcade drove through the streets, including one man who was in the bed of a moving truck with a handheld camera.
It was about a twenty minute ride to the hotel where we’ll hold for about 30 minutes. Arrived at 9:19.
Just wanted to check in. The inauguration has not started and was scheduled to start at 11. We are still holding at the hotel.
We just loaded up into vans to head to the inauguration.
Started moving at 11:57.
People lining the streets, some waving and cheering. One woman had her hand on her heart. People selling different trinkets and food
We arrived at 12:04 to the stadium. There are thousands of people. Those on the grass are seated on chairs draped in white cloth. The majority are on the stadium.
As Vice President was announced, there were cheers and a chant of Viva Honduras! We cannot see the VP from the press risers. The event is underway.
A cannon went off a few times times and then a chant in Spanish after. A band played the Honduran anthem while the crowd put their fists in the air aimed toward the stage.
Then the president-elect began to speak. She shouted out VP Harris as a representative of the United States in the speech. The crowd cheered.
Some run of show from a WH official:
BEFORE POOL ARRIVED
- Military ceremony occurred
o Presentation of the Presidential Sash
o National Anthem of the Republic of Honduras o Salute of Military Troops
o Artillery Salute
o Honduran Air Force Fly Over
o Color Guard Presentation

POOL ARRIVED
Presidential designates take oath of office
- President Castro gives inaugural speech at podium
- President of Sovereign National Congress gives closing remarks
- President Castro swears-in Government Cabinet.
we had some email service problems so here is the correct statement bout departure.
Attributed to a WH official:
There was a delay in departing the hotel to allow motorcade routes to be cleared.
We left the stadium at 1:11 after the president’s speech wrapped. We are headed back to the hotel for lunch before the bilat.
We got back to the hotel at 1:23.
Arrived at the presidential palace at 2:36. VP Harris greeted the new president with a "Congratulations!"
They spoke for a few minutes but it was unclear what was said. An interpreter was with the two. We are now awaiting the arrival of both Harris and Castro to the meeting room. It's large with a huge mahogany table, three chandeliers and their staffs are on either side. There are mostly paintings of former presidents on the walls according to Wh official.
The women sat down at 2:52. We could not really make out what was said from the president.
Notes from what Harris said:
"I'd like to publicly congratulate you on your election. We've been watching the election process closely."
"We appreciate that your election was a democratic election."
"I look forward to … the partnership."
She talked about wanting to make sure they focus on economic prosperity and also laid out the reasons people leave the country and that they don't want to.
Announced that the administration is sending "several hundred thousand more doses of vaccines, 500,000 pediatric syringes and $1.35 million dollars" to help health and educational facilities. The announcements are new.
"Looking forward to this partnership."
Pool was ushered out at 2:58.
Bilat ended just before 3:30. We are now headed back to the military school from this morning for a departure ceremony where we’ll get on helicopters and head back to the AFB to head out.
- T.H. Raul Ruiz, U.S. Member of Congress (D-CA-36)
- T.H. Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
- T.H. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
- T.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development
- T.H. Jose W. Fernandez, Under Secretary for Economic Growth,Energy, and the Environment, U.S. Department of State
- T.H. Brian A. Nichols, Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs, U.S. Department of State
- T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President andSenior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National SecurityCouncil
- Mr. Mazin Alfaqih, Special Advisor to the Vice President
- Mr. Dean Lieberman, Director of Strategic Communications and Assistant Press Secretary, National Security Council
- Mr. Gordon Wood, Political Officer, U.S. Embassy Tegucigalpa
- President Xiomara Castro
- Mr. Enrique Reina, Foreign Minister of Honduras
- Mr. Héctor Zelaya, Personal Advisor to President of Honduras
- Forthcoming, Security Minister of Honduras
Pool is holding a the AFB. Got here around 3:50. VP and US delegation are in another room. The WH sends the below info about who VP Harris spoke to while on the stage at the inauguration.
From WH official
While on stage at the inauguration of President Castro of Honduras, Vice President Harris briefly greeted:
King Felipe VI of Spain
President Carlos Andres Alvarado Quesada of Costa Rica
Prime Minister John Briceño of Belize
Vice President Raquel Peña of the Dominican Republic
Vice President William Lai of Taiwan
Thanks to a recording angel, we have the bilat audio. It was very hard to hear in the room so this is the best we have.
We are still holding at military school.
Moving fast so don’t have time to write quotes. Otter link above. She took 3 questions on trip and one on Breyer.
VP Harris got on her helo at 4:28. We are getting on ours now and lifting off to AFB.
Landed at 4:56 at the AFB. The VP’s helicopter landed at 5:04. She took picture with 38 members of the military from Joint Task Force Bravo and advance staff.
When Harris walked up she clapped for her staff and thanked them. She walked over to the military members, asked them to get closer to her and had a conversation. Could not hear what was said but the members nodded along with her as she spoke.
They took a photo and she got on the plane around 5:14. Lifting off soon.
Greeters:
- Colonel Steven E. Gventer, Commander, Joint Task Force - Bravo, U.S. Southern Command
- ~38 Joint Task Force-Bravo Members
Landed at 10:13 At Andrews after our quick trip to Honduras. Flight was uneventful.
VP deplaned at 10:18. Marine 2 took off at 10:23.
Good night y’all.