Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning & Merry Christmas –
Despite a sharp uptick of the omicron variant throughout Washington, D.C., your pooler has tested negative for COVID-19. There are no planned public events on the POTUS schedule for December 25, 2021. It is a quiet day at the White House, as of now, with partly cloudy skies. A photo is attached below, taken at 11:40 a.m. est.
Good morning –
POTUS and FLOTUS plan to speak with U.S. service members at 1 p.m. est, virtually from the White House. Please note it will be 
.
Good afternoon—
A cluster of press ranging from photojournalists to hard-nosed political reporters have assembled for a pool spray at the South Court Auditorium ahead of a planned POTUS and FLOTUS virtual event. 
POTUS & FLOTUS speaking to troops now with their new dog.
"Merry Christmas," POTUS says, noting he understands that empty chair in homes due to family members being deployed. "Thank you, thank you, thank you…"
Good afternoon—
There are 17 journalists currently at the South Court Auditorium — awaiting POTUS & FOTUS for a three minute pool spray at 1 pm est.
[
]
Press has been booted from the 1pm virtual event with no reporters asking questions – as the first family was turned around on the couch speaking to troops. You can watch the remarks here. Standard remarks with no mention of hot topics of the day such as inflation or "brandon."
Good afternoon ---
The White House has called a travel/photo lid for December 25, 2021.
If the lid is lifted, you will hear from me again.
Happy Holidays,
Good evening –
Please note the following two points of White House related information for Dec. 25th, 2021. First, the Christmas Day virtual call with U.S. troops lasted 32 minutes today. Feel free to reference The Daily Beast's report here.
Secondly, yesterday both POTUS and FLOTUS "participated in Holy Trinity's Christmas Eve Mass virtually in the East Room," a White House official shared.
Please feel free to reach out to me here with any questions or concerns.
Happy Holidays