Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning all. From the White House — Because federal offices in the Washington, DC area are closed, there will be no press briefing today.
Pool has been swept, and the motorcade is on the way to Delaware Air National Guard base.
POTUS boarded AF1 around 9:18 am. He waved to the press, and in response to a question about the post-holiday Covid surge, he said something non-discernible. He then climbed the stairs. He waved again at the top.
Traveling with the President to the White House:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Wheels down in Air Force 1 at 10:06 am at Joint Base Andrews. The plane has not deboarded yet.
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
President Biden exited Air Force 1 around 10:42 am. The motorcade is now en route to the White House.
Due to the snow, deboarding the plane was delayed about a half hour so that the tarmac could be plowed.
As the motorcade traveled to the White House from JBA, for part of the trip, traffic going the opposite way was at a standstill. Police seemed to have stopped them. Roads and trees were covered in snow.
The motorcade was significantly slower than usual and was stop and start. At one point, the pool's bus stopped for at least five minutes.
We're back at the White House, so I'm handing off to in town pool. We didn't see POTUS get out of the car.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a very snowy Washington, D.C., where the call time for your in-town pool has been moved back to 1 p.m.
Passing along a note from the White House below, ahead of today's virtual meeting between President Biden and family and independent farmers and ranchers scheduled for 1:30 p.m.
Also flagging, ICYMI, that today's press briefing has been canceled because of the weather.
From the White House:
Pool -- now at the White House and tested for coronavirus -- is gathering for the president's virtual meeting with family and independent farmers and ranchers. The event was initially scheduled to begin at 1:30.
You can watch the opening remarks of the virtual meeting here: 
The virtual meeting began at 2:27
In physical attendance were Attorney General Merrick Garland, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, and Brian Deese
Pool was ushered into the South Court Auditorium at 2:03.
Reminder that you can watch the event here 
The press was ushered out of the event at 2:58.
Before pool left, the president was asked if the new cdc guidance should include a new testing requirement. The president said he would be talking about that later.
The president, Secretary Vilsack, Attorney General Garland, and Deese, director of the National Economic Council, all spoke.
Also speaking were Corwin Heatwole, CEO, Farmer Focus, Scott Blubaugh, President, Oklahoma Farmers Union, Kelsey Ducheneaux-Scott, Director of Programs at the Intertribal Agriculture Council, Brent Johnson, President, Iowa Farm Bureau Federation, and Handy Kennedy Jr., Owner, HK Farms.
The White House called a lid at 3:30
That's all from me. Good luck with the snow.