This week, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and senior Administration officials continued to travel across the country and flood the local airwaves to speak directly to the American people about how the administration is Building a Better America.
President Biden traveled to Mayfield and Dawson Springs, Kentucky to survey damage from the recent tornadoes and pledge the Administration's commitment to the people affected by the storms. He also traveled to Columbia, South Carolina to deliver the winter commencement speech at the state's largest HBCU – South Carolina State University -- and sat down for two local interviews with Dayton, Ohio and Columbia, South Carolina TV stations to discuss the Administration's efforts to lower costs for families.
Throughout the week, Biden-Harris Cabinet members fanned out – from Nevada to New Hampshire – to highlight the nationwide impact of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and amplify key implementation and funding announcements for states, Tribes, and Territories.
"There are problems with the supply chain, as it relates to food, as it relates to used cars, as it relates to oil. For example, I was able to release, as my authority as President, 50 million barrels of oil from the oil reserve -- we call it the SPR. We have convinced some other countries I've dealt with to release some of their oil, as well, to drive down the price of gasoline. 
Biden said for working and middle-class people, the impacts from inflation are "a big hit." "The inflation, at least for the time being, is real. I've done a couple things. One, inflation is way up in terms of energy prices. Particularly at the gas pump. 
Biden said.
 
President Joe Biden toured two Kentucky towns Wednesday that were devastated by recent tornadoes, pledging federal aid for the recovery ahead and committing more U.S. government funds for short-term cleanup costs. Standing in front of shattered homes in Dawson Springs in western Kentucky, Biden said he had authorized the federal government to cover 100% of the state's emergency response spending for the first 30 days. 
President Joe Biden emphasizes investment in HBCUs during SC State commencement address
Biden said during his speech that HCBUs are responsible for producing over 50% of the Black workforce in judicial, governmental, engineering, and medical fields. Some of the senior most officials in his administration, like Vice President Kamala Harris, who graduated from Howard University, come from HCBUs…
Saying no American should drink water contaminated with lead, the Biden administration on Thursday announced a plan to replace all of the nation's lead service lines. As part of the initiative, the Environmental Protection Agency will send $2.9 billion next year from the newly passed bipartisan infrastructure law to states, territories and tribes to replace lead pipes … 
 Harris said low-income communities and communities of colors are disproportionately exposed to lead.
 
Vice President Kamala Harris announced a new push to eliminate lead pipes and paint, and other fixtures containing lead, from homes and other buildings. It's part of the Biden administration's "Build Back Better" plan. 
.
 
 The funding will allow the community to replace 4.6 miles of lead water main pipe and other aging sewer infrastructure…
They toured a Baltimore Civic Works weatherization job training facility and a weatherized housing unit
 Sealed off from winter drafts and summer heat, weatherized housing units use up less heating and cooling. Because these units are more energy efficient, residents who live in them can save as much as 30% on monthly energy bills, Granholm said.
 
U.S. Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm and U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited RS Automotive Inc., a former gas station and auto repair shop in Takoma Park that has become a charging station for electric vehicles, to announce that their agencies are collaborating to establish a network of 500,000 electric vehicle chargers across the U.S. 
…
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh was joined by Congressman Richard Neal and six area mayors at Union Station to highlight how the infrastructure and Build Back Better bill will improve communities across the Commonwealth. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, Massachusetts is slated to get more than $9 billion from the infrastructure bill over the next five year. 
 
Secretary Walsh said this historic plan will create millions of jobs, and only strengthen America's economy.
The U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited New Hampshire on Monday for a discussion about the new federal infrastructure law and what it could mean for expanding commuter rail in the Granite State … "
As part of the Biden-Harris administration's "Building a Better America" tour, Secretary Haaland visited Palm Springs, California over the weekend before arriving in Las Vegas on Sunday … 
"Water is a sacred resource essential to Tribes and communities, growing crops, sustaining wildlife and the environment, and supporting agricultural businesses. … There is an urgent need to minimize the impacts of drought and develop a long-term plan to facilitate conservation and economic growth because drought doesn't impact just one community — it affects all of us, from farmers and ranchers to city dwellers and Tribes."
 Regan made the announcement along with Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf, and both men hailed the moves as an important step toward environmental justice, given that many Americans of color and those in poverty live near a contaminated site. 