Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where it is a cold, clear and sunny day. Your pooler has been covid-tested.
A note from the WH on who is joining the 10:30 a.m. supply chain meeting in person/virtual and the president's full agenda below.
Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
Department of Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo
Department of Labor Secretary Marty Walsh
Department of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg
National Economic Council Director Brian Deese*
Port Envoy John Porcari*
Fred Smith, CEO of FedEx
Darren Hawkins, CEO of Yellow Corp
Christopher Connor, CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities
Sonia Syngal, CEO of GAP
Dave Harrison, Executive Director of Fastport
FULL SCHEDULE:
[RSVP here by 7:30 AM]
We are gathering at the stakeout location now to be escorted to the South Court Auditorium for this morning's supply chains meeting.
We have a two-minute warning on the start of the supply chains meeting.
President Biden entered the South Court auditorium at 10:48 a.m. and carefully took a seat at a mahogany desk. "Hello, folks how are you?" he said.
National Economic Council Director Brian Deese and Port Envoy John Porcari are seated at desks across from him. Deese is nodding along as the president speaks.
His supply chains task force members are on screen.
Watch meeting live here: 
In his opening remarks this morning, President Biden emphasized his administration's efforts to move more goods to market, keep shelves stocked, and lower gas prices, pointing to what one analyst had described as the "strongest first-year economic track record of any president in the last 50 years."
He touted the 4.2 percent unemployment rate, the creation of nearly 6 million new jobs and his American Rescue plan and bipartisan infrastructure law. Nodding to critics in Congress of his social spending and climate bill, he called his Build Back Better Bill "the biggest weapon in our arsenal," which he said would "reduce which families have to pay for drugs or health care, for childcare, and so much more."
He again made the argument the bill is paid for: "The bill is paid fully, fully paid for. It won't increase the deficit." Nobody making less than $400,000 will pay any more in taxes, he said. Pointing to economic forecasts from Wall Street, he stressed that failing to act on BBB would mean less economic growth, not more. "Let me say it again. This is not a liberal think tank. Wall Street. Failing to make these investments... slow growth, not increase it."
Task force members painted a rosier economic outlook ahead for the holiday season despite the negative headlines, pointing to private-public partnerships.
Throughout the opening hour, Biden appeared engaged, often gesturing with his hands for emphasis and taking notes. Reporters were escorted from the room at about 11:10 a.m., as the task force turned to discussing inventories.
The president looked annoyed as reporters shouted questions at him, some not related to the supply chain issues, but he relented. "If you want to talk to me about what's on here, you can ask me a question," he said.
In response to whether he had taken a covid test, he said he had taken one as he walked over to the auditorium and had not yet received the results.
Next and final question he answered was: "Mr. President, the trucking industry is petitioning the Supreme Court to repeal your vaccine mandate. They think that it's going to harm the supply chains recovery. What do you say?"
"I say — No, thank you," the president said, flashing a big smile before turning back to the task force on the screen.
From the WH:
"This morning, President Biden received a PCR test and the test result was negative."
We have a two-minute warning for today's daily briefing.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki has taken the podium.
Watch live here: 
A travel/photo lid has been called for the day.
Until next time and happy holidays!
Jazmine