Pool Reports by 
, 
The in-town pool is gathered on the South Lawn for President Biden's departure to tour tornado damage in Kentucky.
President Biden emerged from the White House residence at 9:01.
Biden took questions on whether he plans to meet with Vladimir Putin, the coronavirus, Mark Meadows text messages on Jan. 6 and the status of Build Back Better Act negotiations.
He cited "some" progress on the legislation, per other reporters. He walked the rope line so I recommend playing the video. I'll send along full quotes when they are clear.
Marine One was wheels up at 9:06.
Here are some fuller quotes from the South Lawn just now:
Biden: "We will be talking at length."
Biden: [smiles, no verbal answer]
Biden: "I hope so. It's going to be close."
Biden: "I don't know enough with what — just what I've seen, I've not spoken to anyone, it seems to me he is worthy of being held in contempt."
Biden: "I haven't seen them all."
Biden: "Some." [thumbs up]
We have a two-minute warning for Karine Jean-Pierre's gaggle aboard Air Force One. You can stream the audio here: 
And here's information on the Marine One travel group earlier:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 7:27.
President Biden entered the White House residence at 7:30 without responding to shouted questions about Joe Manchin, his Christmas plans and the carbon footprint of his frequent Delaware trips.
If anyone needs it, here's clean audio of earlier Air Force One gaggle, courtesy of the White House: 
At 7:32 we received a travel/photo lid.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, from which President Biden is scheduled to leave this morning to tour the tornado damage.
We have been advised that cellular service may be limited or unavailable in areas we are going. Pool will attempt to get reports out as soon as possible, but be aware of those limitations.
Deputy Press Sec Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to speak with the pool en route to Kentucky. The audio from this should be available at the White House web site as it happens.
We are traveling aboard one of the larger plane, the modified Boeing 747, tail number 28000, for the flight to Fort Campbell, and are scheduled to use Marine V-22s for the visits to affected areas.
Here is the schedule for the day as per the daily guidance:
[
 by 6:00 AM]
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
Traveling on Air Force One with the President to Fort Campbell, Kentucky:
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
Congressman James Comer (KY-01)
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor to the Press Secretary
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Connolly Keigher, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Presidential Advance
Caitlin Durkovich, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Resilience & Response, NSC
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Marine 1 set down on the concrete tarmac at Andrews at 0916 and came to a stop about 200 feet ahead of the plane.
The president stepped off in a blazer and Ray Bans and walked to the boarding staircase. He did not engage with the waiting pool.
He climbed the stairs, turned to wave, and entered the forward door at 0920.
We should be airborne shortly.
Air Force 1 touched down at Fort Campbell at 0949 CST following a 78-minute flight, in which we had no visitors from the forward part of the plane other than the gaggle.
The president came down the stairs at 1000 , where he was met by:
Governor Andy Beshear (KY)
First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)
Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)
General Joseph P. (JP) McGee, Commanding General, 101st Airborne Division
Command Sergeant Major Veronica E. Knapp, Command Sergeant Major, 101st Airborne Division
He spoke with them for four minutes, then walked to the smaller version of Marine 1 for the flight to the first site.
During the flight, Deputy Press Sec Karrine Jean-Pierre took questions for just under 10 minutes as the plane was landing on a variety of topics, including climate change, Build Back Better, Mark Meadows, the omicron variant, among others.
The audio should be available on the WH web site.
Pool is hustling to board our Osprey for the flight to Mayfield.
The president's traveling party aboard three Marine tilt-rotor V-22s arrived at Mayfield's airport at 1031, with Biden's Marine 1 touched down 14 minutes later, following an aerial tour of the area.
Snapped tree trunks and some wrecked homes were visible through the windows as the pool's Osprey neared the runway.
The president stepped out of the helicopter at 1049 and was met by:
Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)
Mayor Kathy O'Nan (Mayfield)
They were still chatting beside his black SUV when the pool was led to the press van.
Motorcade was moving at 1053.
The vehicles traveled just a few hundred yards to a corrugated steel hangar.
Pool was led inside, where 8 folding tables were arranged in a U on the gray painted concrete floor. Food, bottles of water, what appeared to donated clothes and toys were stacked on pallets.
The president was already seated, DHS Sec Mayorkas to his right, Gov Beshear and FEMA Administrator Criswell to his left.
Biden began speaking at 1059, told those assembled that their community reminded him of communities in Delaware.
He said he has been impressed by how everyone works together in the wake of tragedy.
"There's no red tornadoes, there's no blue tornadoes."
He said he told his team to make KY officials aware of all the help available from the federal government.
"I'm here to listen. I think the vast majority of Americans know what you've been through just watching on television."
He finished at 1104, and Gov. Beshear began explaining the situation.
Pool was led out at 1113, as the event continued.
Per the WH press office:
In attendance for the President's briefing from local leaders on the impacts of the tornadoes and extreme weather:
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
Governor Andy Beshear (KY)
Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)
First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)
Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)
Representative James Comer (KY-01)
Mayor Kathy O'Nan, Mayfield
Michael Dossett, Kentucky Emergency Management Director
Gracia Szczech, Regional Administrator, FEMA Region 4
Nathan Kent, Mayfield Chief of Police
Jeremy Creason, Mayfield Fire Chief
Samuel "Carr" McKay, Mayfield Mobile Disaster Resource Center
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor to the Press Secretary
La Tasha Buckner, Chief of Staff to Governor Beshear
Jonathan Smith, Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor Beshear
Crystal Staley, Communications Director for Governor Beshear
Barry McDonald, Mayfield City Councilmember
Jana Adams, Mayfield City Councilmember
Brad Rodgers, Mayfield City Councilmember
Johnny Jackson, Mayfield City Councilmember
Chuck Whitnell, Mayfield City Councilmember
Johnny L. Jackson, Mayfield City Councilmember
Lauren Carr, Mayfield City Councilmember
Derrick Parrott, Mayfield City Councilmember
Carol Todd, Mayfield City Councilmember
The presidential motorcade was underway at 1200, en route to Mayfield to tour storm damage.
The president arrived in a tornado-ravaged section of Mayfield at 1209, following a drive along a road lined with destruction.
Crumbled buildings, an RV dealership with flipped over trucks, a torn-up gas station.
Residents took cell phone photos and video as we passed. Pool did not notice any political signage or banners, save for one Trump flag on a pickup truck at a corner.
The damage was extensive as we entered the town proper, with block after block of wrecked buildings.
Per the WH press office:
In attendance for the Mayfield, Kentucky neighborhood town:
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
Governor Andy Beshear (KY)
Lieutenant Governor Jacqueline Coleman (KY)
First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)
Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)
Representative James Comer (KY-01)
Mayor Kathy O'Nan, Mayfield
Jesse Perry, Graves County Judge Executive
Anne Henning Byfield, Presiding Bishop of the AME Council of Bishops
The president began the walk past wrecked buildings.
About 200 yards down, Biden stopped to talk with a woman sitting among a pile of rubble. Bricks lay on the ground. The roof gone.
Their conversation was out of earshot, as the wind gusted.
Turning a corner, a voice shouted out to ask him what he said to the faith-based groups that had come to help.
"I say thank you. You're doing God's work"
A few minutes later, he was on a cell phone, speaking to the child of one his walk companions. A few minutes later the group stopped in the middle of the street to pray.
Biden stopped to answer a question about what he had seen. He said the government would continue to help for weeks and months to come. "I'm impresssd how everyone's working together."
He noted that weather events had this year caused $99 billion of damage.
(Network cameras will have full audio. Watch for playback.)
At 1230 pool was hustled back onto the press bus for the drive back to the airport.
At 1250, pool was back aboard the Osprey for the flight to the next location. We should be aloft shortly en route Princeton, KY.
The support Ospreys landed at 1311 at Princeton-Caldwell County Airport. Marine 1 touched down at 1314.
He was greeted on the tarmac by Mayor Chris Smiley, Dawson Springs, with whom he chatted for several minutes beside the helicopter, which eventually turned off its engines.
The pool is holding in the press vans.
At 1345 the president, who had been holding in a small building at the edge of the tarmac, got into his SUV. The pool had already loaded aboard press vans for the drive to Dawson Springs.
The motorcade was rolling at 1346.
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival in Dawson Springs, the President will be greeted by Judge Executive Jack Whitfield, Jr., Hopkins County.
Joining the tour of Dawson Springs, Kentucky:
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
Governor Andy Beshear (KY)
First Lady Britainy Beshear (KY)
Former Governor Steve Beshear (KY)
Representative James Comer (KY-01)
Mayor Chris Smiley, Dawson Springs
Judge Executive Jack Whitfield, Jr., Hopkins County
The motorcade pulled into the town at 1412, again passing occasional onlookers with cell phone cameras, except for the stretch on Interstate 69.
One family, including a baby and a toddler, watched from the stoop of a home, the only part of the structure still standing.
We passed work crews replacing utility poles and hauling off debris at the end, with destroyed structures on both sides of the street.
The president is to tour damage here and deliver brief remarks.
On a small road with torn and broken homes either side, their contents strewn out in every direction, the president made his way on foot, accompanied by the Dawson Springs mayor and the governor.
In blue trousers, blazer, work boots, no tie and a Beau Biden Foundation ball cap, Biden chatted with families and police officers as generators generators and heavy machinery whirred and clanged.
Conversations were hard to make out.
The president continued walking past the trees, branches filled with shreds of insulation rather than leaves, stopping to speak with and hug residents who had lost everything.
A lectern was set up at an intersection, where Gov Beshear and then President Biden are to speak.
The remarks will be carried on the White House web site and possible elsewhere (there do not seem to be speakers set up here, so the audio is almost certainly going to be better on the web cast).
The president, who listened to Gov Beshear's speech with his hands on the shoulders of a small boy in an underarmour hoodie standing ahead of him, came to the lectern at 1506.
The remarks are being streamed at the White House web site.
The president introduced the boy and his cousin he had met at the last house he visited, thanked the governor and the local congressman, a Republican, and promised that the federal response would continue.
"I intend to do whatever it takes as long as it takes."
"These tornadoes devoured everything in their path."
"It's incredible how you all stepped up."
Biden then said the federal government would cover 100 percent of the cost of the recovery from the tornadoes for the first 30 days.
"We're going to make sure you have all the help you need."
"To all the families: keep the faith."
Biden responded to a question about whether FEMA needs more money, saying not yet, but took the opportunity to again say that climate change-related weather events have already caused $99 billion of damage just this year.
He wrapped up at 1519.
Pool is being nudged back to the press vans.
At 1530, the motorcade is rolling back toward the Princeton airport for the helicopter flight back to Fort Campbell.
The motorcade got back to Princeton airport at 1554. The pool was led to our V-22 before the president boarded Marine 1.
We expect to lift momentarily for the flight back to the base.
Also, the WH press office passes along the names of the children he introduced at the top of his speech:
Dane Maddox (7 years old)
Abby Parker (21 years old)
The Ospreys and Marine 1 were all back on the ground at Fort Campbell by 1632.
At 1637, President Biden climbed the staircase and entered Air Force 1 through the forward door. He did not stop to take questions from the traveling pool.
We loaded onto the plane through the aft door and expect to be in the air soon for the flight home.
Per the WH press office:
Upon arrival at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, the President will be greeted planeside by:
General Joseph P. (JP) McGee, Commanding General, 101st Airborne Division
Command Sergeant Major Veronica E. Knapp, Command Sergeant Major, 101st Airborne Division
Air Force 1 had wheels on the concrete at 1901 EST after an uneventful 73-minute flight. Deputy national security adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall came by briefly for an off-the-record chat during approach and landing. There were no other visitors from the quarterdeck.
The president emerged from the plane at 1911, came down the stairs, where he was met by Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, and then walked to the waiting helicopter. It was airborne at 1918, heading back to the White House.
Handing off now to the in-town pool for the remainder of the day.
Have a good evening.
For those curious about the girl holding the American flag at the second stop…
Per the WH press office:
Holding the U.S. flag at the beginning of the tour in Dawson Springs: Raylie Hall.