Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from an overcast Wilmington.
We have a brunch lid until 11:30 a.m.
Pool was COVID-tested at the hotel this morning.
For your general awareness, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki has tweeted this morning regarding the tornadoes and other severe weather that struck several states overnight.
Your pooler has no further information, but if it is provided I shall pass it along expeditiously.
Brunch lid remains in place until 11:30 a.m.
Passing along the following from the White House:
**
The President was briefed this morning on the deadly, devastating tornadoes across the central United States. The White House is closely monitoring the impacts of the severe weather. We are in touch with state and local officials as the search for survivors and damage assessments continue, and will provide the Federal government's full support as needed.
The pool has been instructed to gather at its downtown Wilmington hotel at 2:30pm.
From the White House:
This afternoon the President will deliver remarks on the severe weather that impacted several states last night.
Pool was rolling from its hotel at 2:28 p.m.
The pool arrived at a holding position adjacent to the Biden residence at 2:39pm.
Still holding in the van as of now, 2:54pm.
Having been screened for security purposes, the pool picked up the motorcade at 3:59pm
.
And off we go again.
Late afternoon weather report: Slate gray skies, dampness in the air but no rain right now, 63 degrees.
Pool arrived at the Chase Center on the Riverfront in Wilmington at 4:10pm
Some Wilmingtonians, if that is the correct term, came out of their homes to watch the motorcade pass by, but your pooler did not see any noteworthy exhibitions of support or opposition.
The expectation is that POTUS's remarks will be streamed live at 
.
Therefore, your pooler will not attempt transcription but will offer color if possible
The President began speaking at 4:14pm
The President spoke somberly, dressed in a dark suit, light blue shirt and patterned dark tie.
There was a glass of water placed beside him from which he did not drink.
He took a question about a possible link to climate change:
"The Intensity of the weather across the board" is linked to climate change, he said. But "the specific impact" on "these specific storms, I can't say."
Another Q about plans to visit the affected areas?
"Yes I do." He said he has already offered to go to Kentucky but "I don't want to be in the way." Reiterated he intends to go, however.
The room hushed even more when POTUS pondered the plight of those wondering "Is my loved one going to be ok?"
"My heart aches for those people right now."
As he was beginning to leave, he was asked why he had taken the idea of US troops being deployed to Ukraine off the table
"They never were on the table," he said.
He also said that the economic consequences for Russia if Putin moves forward will be "devastating."
Remarks ended at 4:25pm.
Pool is out and motorcade is moving at 4:29pm.
As always check remarks against transcript and apologies for any typos committed in haste.
The motorcade proceeded through the streets of Wilmington in the gathering dusk.
Pool has not set eyes on POTUS since the conclusion of his remarks.
The pool van peeled off from the motorcade close to the Biden residence at 4:41pm. The short journey was without incident.
The pool is now back at its earlier holding position.
Pool once again joined the motorcade, now leaving the Biden residence.
Moving at 5:02pm.
Motorcade arrived at the President's church, St Joseph on the Brandywine, at 5:05pm
It is now dark, and your pooler did not see POTUS enter the church.
The President left church at 5:49pm.
It did not appear that any other family members had joined him for the service but the pool was watching from a distance in near-darkness so cannot fully verify.
Motorcade rolling at 5:50pm
The motorcade returned to the residence, and a lid was called at 5:55pm.
Enjoy your Saturday night, everyone.
Passing this update along from the White House:
****
President Biden spoke with Kentucky Governor Beshear again this evening to get an update on the latest damage assessments and search and rescue efforts. The President reaffirmed the Federal government's support for the people of Kentucky throughout the difficult time ahead.