Pool Reports by 
, 
Hey everyone! I'm you're VP Pooler for today! Harris is headed to Maryland for a briefing and remarks about EV investments. The pool is tested and loaded up in our vans and rolled out at 7:51.
Here's the information from the official schedule: At
, the Vice President will receive a briefing on electric vehicle investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Build Back Better Act. This briefing at the Brandywine Maintenance Facility in Prince George's County, Maryland will be pooled press.
At
, the Vice President will deliver remarks on electric vehicle investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Build Back Better Act. National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy and Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm will also deliver remarks. These remarks at the Brandywine Maintenance Facility will be pooled press.
Background from WH official:
On Monday December 13th, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce the Biden-Harris Administration's Electric Vehicle Charging Action Plan that fast tracks Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investments. [See Fact Sheet Attached]
The Vice President will make the announcement during her remarks at Brandywine Maintenance Facility in Brandywine, Maryland, where she will also receive a briefing about the work to electrify the Prince George's County vehicle fleet.
The Electric Vehicle Charging Action Plan moves forward the implementation of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, establishing a joint electric vehicles office between the Departments of Energy and Transportation, issuing guidance and standards for states, and ensuring consultations with diverse stakeholders, including manufacturers, governments, equity and environmental justice groups, civil rights groups, and tribal communities. The Department of Transportation and the Department of Energy will also launch a new Advisory Committee on Electric Vehicles and aims to appoint members to this committee by the first quarter of 2022. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm will hold an event on Tuesday, December 14th to formally establish the joint office.
Prince George's County has started to electrify its vehicle fleet. As part of that effort, electric vehicle chargers were installed in the parking lot of the Brandywine Maintenance Facility. These chargers are currently the only ones in the local area, filling a key gap in the region's electric vehicle charging network.
During her remarks, the Vice President will tout the benefits of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law which makes the most transformative investment in electric vehicle charging in U.S. history and will make chargers more accessible alongside our highways and in urban, suburban, and rural areas. She will also make the case for the Build Back Better Act, which will cut the sticker price of new and used electric vehicles.
The Vice President will be joined by:
During her time in the Senate, the Vice President led on several pieces of legislation to address the climate crisis and advance environmental justice - including the Clean School Bus Act, the Wildfire Defense Act, the Water for Tomorrow Act, the Water Justice Act, and the Environmental Justice for All Act, which helped to shape key provisions of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
We arrived at the Brandywine Maintenance Facility just before 8:40. The VP is not with us. She's coming later.
Here are members of staff with the VP today:
Symone Sanders- Sr Advisor & Chief Spokesperson for the VP
Michael Fuchs- Deputy Chief of Staff for the VP
Kate Childs Graham- Director of Speechwriting for the Office of the VP
Kristine Lucius- Director of Leg Affairs for the OVP
Michael Collins, director of office of public engagement and intergovernmental affairs
Harris came out of the building around 10:25 for a tour and briefing of three vehicles.
"A beautiful day. Good morning everyone," Harris said as she walked over. There EVs and three briefers we're waiting for her.
With Harris on tour:
- Gina McCarthy, White House National Climate Advisor
- Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD-05)
- Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD)
- Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)
- Angela Alsobrooks, Prince George County Executive (D-MD)
- Mahidhar Reddy, CEO & Founder at SemaConnect
- Antoine Thompson, Executive Director of Greater Washington Region Clean Cities Coalition
- Martin L. Harris, Acting Director of Department of Public Works and Transportation, Prince George County
"How many of these cars do you have in the fleet," Harris asked Harris the first briefer.
(Entire fleet will be electric by 2035.)
"And they need to be charged how frequently?" Harris asked.
Harris walks over to the second EV with a charging station and was briefed on it. The breifer demonstrated how the someone would use it. The briefer tells her she can plug it in.
"I was going to ask you if I could. And there's no sound or fume! ...How do I know it's actually working," Harris said laughing."
It's done charging when it's a blinking green, according to the briefer.
Harris talked about the administration wanting "to make electric vehicles accessible for everyone." Spoke about people in rural America, and in apartments needing access. "Absolutely make it accessible for everyone and easy. Just like filling up your car with gas."
Harris moved over to a Ford van with "The All Electric 2022 Ford E Transit"
Harris talked about the importance of "the symmetry between the potential we have here achievable protection and the lessons learned by the rollout of broadband."
"When we think about the rollout of electric vehicles, we have those lessons in mind. Parity and equity and ... thinking about communities that usually get overlooked."
The event is NOT livestreamed so I will try and send as much from her speech as possible.
VP Harris came out about 11:07. She was preceded by Secretary Granholm, Gina McCarthy, Senator Cardin, Leader Hoyer.
Will send color, quotes and otter link after speech.
Harris started speech talking about tornado damage:
"Our hearts first go out to the communities that have been impacted. You've lost so much and so fast. We are committed to helping you and helping to heal the wounds which will probably be long lasting. We will continue to monitor the situation closely."
Harris finished speaking around 11:22. Here is the otter since it wasn't live-streamed 
. The pool is now waiting to head out.
The room we're in is an assembly line for EV cars. There are cords hanging from the ceiling. There's a burgundy track where cars are driven on
Harris' stage is in between two EVs. Ones a silver Ford F-150 and the other is a red Chevrolet Volt according to staff. There are more than 45 black folding chairs for the audience which includes Cardin, Van Hollen, Hoyer, Gina McCarthy and Sec. Granholm.
[Image.jpeg]
Photo attached.
[
]
Pool rolled out around 11:37 en route to the White House.
Had a few tweaks to Harris' quote on tornadoes:
"Our hearts of course go out to the communities that have been impacted. You've lost so much and so quickly. So we are committed — the president and I and our administration — to helping you and to helping to heal the wounds, which will probably be long lasting. And we will continue of course to monitor the situation closely and to do everything in our power, as the federal government and as leaders to help you get through this."
And we're back! VP Harris is doing a round table in her ceremonial office with private sector CEOs who have made commitments to invest in Northern Triangle countries.
Pool is holding for event to start. Slated to start at 3:30.
Participants:
Background from WH:
On Monday, December 13th at 3:30pm EST, as part of her role addressing the root causes of migration from Central America, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce during a roundtable with CEOs that new, private sector investments in Central America 
. (See Embargoed Fact Sheet, attached.)

These commitments are in response to the Vice President's 
 
, for businesses and social enterprises to make new, significant commitments to sustainably address the root causes of migration by promoting economic opportunity.
The roundtable on Monday will take place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, and it will be part of a virtual conference convened by the State Department, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the Partnership for Central America to support investment in the region.
Announcements that companies will make tomorrow, include:












Meeting started just after 3:32. Most of the attendees are in person with a couple visible on zoom.
The VP spoke for about 11 minutes and pool was escorted out. Otter to her remarks are below.
Harris touched on the now $1.2 billion in investments for the Northern Trianlge region, thanked the participants
Notable quotes:
"Six months ago, we had a commitment of $750 million. Today we have a commitment of over 1.2 billion."
"The people of El Salvador and Guatemala and Honduras; we have talked many times during our meetings about who they are. They are not unlike people all over the world. When they leave their home country, the place of their birth. A place where their grandmother might still live. They usually leave for one of two reasons not because they want to. But either they are fleeing some harm or because they simply cannot satisfy the basic need for themselves or their families if they stay."
"I will say I've also met with the people of Central America. And in those conversations, these extraordinary people have expressed an incredible amount of optimism. I believe borne out of their knowledge about the work that this group has been doing and the potential for collaboration and our partnership. They are aware of the root causes strategy and they see themselves in it they see their voices of leadership in it. And we are counting on them to lead. This is not about us coming in and telling anyone what they should do. It is about being partners and assisting and helping to facilitate the natural desire of the people in these nations. This is important work. This is good work. I think this reflects the best of who we are as the United States recognizing our responsibility as neighbors to these countries in the Western Hemisphere."
Link to Otter: 