This week, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Biden-Harris Administration officials traveled across the country and flooded the local airwaves to discuss the nationwide impact of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the steps the administration is taking to lower costs for working families, ease inflationary pressures, and grow the economy from the bottom-up and in the long-term.
President Biden traveled to Kansas City, Missouri where he toured the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority and discussed how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is Building a Better America with modern roads and bridges, better public transit, clean water, high-speed internet, and good-paying, union jobs. Vice President Harris hosted the first-ever White House Maternal Health Day of Action, where she was joined by Members of Congress and advocates who highlighted the Build Back Better Act's maternal health provisions. And, Cabinet members and senior administration officials spoke directly to the American people about the infrastructure law and Biden economic agenda, which is getting people back to work and putting more money in Americans' pockets.
President Joe Biden on Wednesday visited the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority to tout the $1.2 trillion infrastructure bill he signed into law last month, expected to bring billions in spending on roads and bridges, clean water, public transportation, high speed internet and more to Kansas and Missouri. 
President Joe Biden promoted a new $1.2 trillion federal law in Kansas City on Wednesday that his administration hopes will prove transformational in reinforcing and advancing the nation's aging infrastructure.
When in the Senate, Vice President Harris helped craft the Momnibus, a 12-bill package intended to address women's health, both clinically and through outside factors like housing security, climate change and more. 
, including money to expand the workforce with people like doulas and midwives, plus expand research on maternal health at minority-serving institutions.
"It was an honor to attend Vice President Harris' Maternal Health Day of Action yesterday at the White House. I've been working on policies to increase positive maternal health outcomes since first introducing the MOMMAs Act in the 114th Congress. 
," said Congresswoman Kelly.
Prices at the pump have finally started to creep lower, and that trend should significantly accelerate in the coming months, according to new government forecasts. 
"
 Granholm told reporters Thursday morning…Granholm highlighted upcoming policies for sustainable energy: carbon-capture grants and private-sector tax incentives for building out clean-energy projects….She also brought up that the Biden administration encouraged states last month to direct federal funds from the coronavirus relief act Congress passed in March toward easing home-energy costs this winter.
Biden's infrastructure law includes $8 billion for four hydrogen hubs. The University of Illinois hopes to house one of the four. If the University of Illinois does succeed in creating the Midwestern Hydrogen Hub and winning federal support, it would mean roughly $2 billion for the region over the next four years…
On Monday, local leaders broke ground on an $8 million upgrade on the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority charging station in Buffalo…"
 said Secretary Walsh. "The Biden-Harris administration is committed to fighting the climate crisis and supporting our nation's public transit systems—all while creating quality, good-paying jobs."
"A major component of building back better is creating a skilled, resilient workforce for the 21st century economy,' Walsh said.
.
…The Build Back Better Act, supported by [Congressman Brian] Higgins and approved by the House of Representatives in November, makes various investments in American workers, including $13.6 billion for workforce activities administered through the U.S. Department of Labor. Included is $5 billion through 2026 for grants to industry, sector partners and training providers, such as Northland Workforce Training Center, "to expand employment and training activities in high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand industry sectors and occupations."
As co-chair of the Biden-Harris administration's Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force, Vilsack and the USDA have brought together industry, labor and federal partners to address the short-term supply chain disruptions arising from the administration's economic recovery. This is one of several steps that the USDA is taking to build a more resilient supply chain and better food system and to increase competition in agricultural markets, Vilsack said.
U.S. Interior Secretary Deb Haaland pledged federal resources and cooperation with governors from 19 Western states to tackle wildfire resilience, drought management, oil and gas cleanup efforts and other issues made more difficult by climate change. 
"We cannot be successful in putting these new resources to work without your support and leadership," she told the group. "We know it will be you and your teams who implement so many of the on-the-ground projects that will reshape our shared future."
 
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg spoke with FOX40's Nikki Laurenzo and the Los Angeles Times' Chris Megerian Thursday for an interview about President Joe Biden's $1 trillion infrastructure package. The Sacramento Press Club's virtual forum covered the impacts the president's infrastructure funding will have on California. 
One of the reasons why you see a historic level of commitment to passenger rail — and I should say this isn't all for high-speed, but it certainly includes that — one of the reasons you see that in this bill is we do think it's important for the economic competitiveness of the country as a whole," Buttigieg said. "And the opportunity in California is a big example of that."
 
According to the EPA, the federal funds will be used for projects that replace or upgrade aging pipes and equipment and prevent lead and PFAS contamination.
 "We know that this delta variant has ravaged this community, and we don't know what to expect with the omicron variant, but the White House has basically assured us that they want to continue to partner with all the local municipalities as well as state governments to do everything that we can to get vaccines in people's arms,'" Crowley told FOX6 from the White House on Thursday.