Today, Secretary Gina Raimondo announced the finalists for the Department of Commerce's $1 billion Build Back Better Regional Challenge. This American Rescue Plan program will support equitable economic growth, create good-paying jobs, help workers develop in-demand skills, and build economic resilience in the wake of the pandemic. By reinvesting in the middle class, this program will help build communities back better in regions across America.
529 communities across the country applied for this grant – a testament to the enthusiasm for this type of investment. Today, the Biden Administration announced 60 finalists – that cover 45 states and 1 territory – including 12 Coal Communities and 15 Indigenous Communities. Finalists will receive a $500,000 grant to hone their projects and then will be eligible to compete for implementation grants that can be as much as $100 million each.
"Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo on Monday is announcing 60 finalists for $1 billion in economic development grants tied to the Biden administration's coronavirus relief package and aimed at improving job training and regional industry partnerships. There were 529 applicants for the grants. That means roughly 11% of submissions made it to the next round, which will ultimately choose 20 to 30 regional coalitions for up to $100 million in grants that could shape manufacturing, clean energy and life sciences hubs around the country. Twelve of the finalists were from places tied to the coal industry."
"U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo announced Monday the 60 finalists for the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) $1 billion 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' – the marquee of EDA's American Rescue Plan programs – that aims to boost economic pandemic recovery and rebuild American communities, including some that have been grappling with decades of disinvestment. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge provides transformative investments – up to $100 million per grantee – to develop and strengthen regional industry clusters across the country, all while embracing economic equity, creating good-paying jobs, and enhancing U.S. competitiveness globally."
"Two projects sponsored by Rhode Island are among 60 finalists for $1 billion in competitive Department of Commerce grants. The 60 finalists, culled from 529 proposals, will be whittled down to 20 or 30, U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, the former governor of Rhode Island, announced Monday. The finalists will get $500,000 to further develop their proposals by March. The money from the U.S. Economic Development Administration is funded through the American Rescue Plan. The more Rhode Island-centric of the two finalists would support an effort led by the URI Research Foundation to diversify the state's blue economy away from a concentration on tourism. The Rhode Island Blue Economy Technology Cluster would support things like wind and wave power, 'while improving the productivity of the blue tourism sub-industry.'"
"Western New York could be in line for as much as $100 million in federal funds to train workers and otherwise prepare for becoming a national hub for high-tech manufacturing. That's because a proposal called the Western New York Advanced Manufacturing Cluster was selected as a finalist for the Biden administration's 'Build Back Better Challenge,' an effort to deliver massive infusions of federal stimulus money to bolster local economies across the country."
Central New York and the Mohawk Valley beat out hundreds of communities from across the nation to advance in a $1 billion federal competition for economic development aid, the U.S. Commerce Department plans to announce today. U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer said the region will be among 60 finalists chosen from 529 applicants in the Build Back Better Challenge, a federal initiative aimed at helping speed the economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic.
"With initiatives for the biopharmaceutical sector of northwestern Puerto Rico, the Department of Economic Development and Commerce (
) is one of 60 finalists seeking a grant of up to $100 million offered by the United States Department of Commerce. for projects aimed at promoting regional industrial groups. The 60 finalists will receive an allocation of $500,000 to further develop their ideas. From the most elaborate proposals submitted no later than March 15, 2022, between 20 and 30 winners will be selected."
"An effort to build an lithium-ion battery factory in Endicott got another jolt Monday when the federal government granted it one of an early awards through a federal stimulus package. An effort tied to Imperium3 New York Inc. was selected as a phase 1 awardee to receive $500,000 in technical assistance for its burgeoning project that hopes to employ as many as 8,000 people over the next decade, Sen. Chuck Schumer was set to announce Monday. Schumer, the power Senate majority leader, has been pushing the Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration to select to the Binghamton University-led New Energy New York battery manufacturing project."
"A South Louisiana energy project and a New Orleans-based health sciences initiative have been named two of the 60 finalists still in the running to receive millions in federal grant money from President Biden's 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge.' U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo on Monday (Dec. 13) announced the finalists advancing from a pool of 529 applicants hoping to receive up to $100 million each for projects to develop and strengthen regional industry clusters around the country. Among those receiving $500,000 to further develop their proposed projects before a Phase 2 deadline of March 15, 2022, were the Greater New Orleans Development Foundation and the New Orleans BioInnovation Center."
"A coalition of businesses and government led by the University of Memphis has been selected as a finalist in the Build Back Better Regional Challenge. As a finalist, the group will move on to compete with 60 other communities for a $100 million grant. As a result of making it to the finals, the coalition was given a $500,000 planning grant. This coalition, led by the U of M, includes the Greater Memphis Chamber, Epicenter, Start Co., and the Memphis Area Association of Governments. They plan on developing a new urban-rural innovation district called the Digital Delta According to the project proposal, the Digital Delta is designed, 'to position the Memphis Region as an Applied Technology Cluster to create an economy of innovation driven by applied technologies that will accelerate the growth and development of targeted industry clusters of agribusiness and food, medical device and healthcare technology, supply chain and logistics, and electric vehicles (EV) and sustainable mobility.'"
"A coalition led by the Port of Portland is among 60 finalists vying for $1 billion in economic development grants tied to the Biden administration's coronavirus relief package and aimed at improving job training and regional industry partnerships. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo announced 60 finalists on Monday from 529 applicants for the grants. That means roughly 11% of submissions made it to the next round, which will ultimately choose 20 to 30 regional coalitions for up to $100 million in grants that could shape manufacturing, clean energy and life sciences hubs around the country. Twelve of the finalists were from places tied to the coal industry."
"Two Alaska projects received $500,000 as finalists in the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Build Back Better Regional Challenge. The Southeast Conference in Alaska is proposing eight projects to improve the mariculture industry on Alaska's coasts, including an integrated hatching network, workforce development programs and private investment incentives, according to a news release from the U.S. Department of Commerce. The second project is led by Spruce Root, a nonprofit Community Development Financial Institution. The goal is to create a sustainable forest products cluster that would create economic opportunities for tribal and rural communities, according to the news release."
"Two Oklahoma projects have received $500,000 as finalists in the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Build Back Better Regional Challenge. The finalists include a project by the Indian Nations Council of Governments that would boost job creation and the economy in northeast Oklahoma, according to a news release the U.S. Department of Commerce. The goal is to turn the region into a production and research and development hub in the advanced mobility industry. The projects include renovating the wastewater infrastructure of some industrial parks, the creation of a drone testing flight corridor that includes hangers for the aircraft, a new center at Oklahoma State University focused on business support and technical development and the creation of certificates and degrees to improve the region's workforce."
"A project that would create a financial hub for Native American communities in North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming and Montana is one of 60 finalists in the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Build Back Better Regional Challenge, according to a news release from the U.S. Department Commerce. The Four Bands Community Fund received $500,000 that can be used to pursue an award of up to $100 million in phase 2 of the program. The plans for the project, called the Mountain Plains Regional Indigenous Finance Industry, include a revolving loan fund, an innovations center and workforce and professional development."
"The U.S. Economic Development Administration has announced 60 finalists for the agency's 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge,' and a central Indiana coalition made the initial cut out of 529 applicants. The EDA says the winning programs will receive up to $100 million to use towards economic pandemic recovery. The 60 finalists – each a coalition of partnering entities – have proposed projects that will develop or scale industry sectors, develop and train workers and build resilient economies."
"Wichita State is one of 60 finalists for the U.S. Economic Development Administration's $1 billion 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' – the marquee of EDA's American Rescue Plan program signed by President Joe Biden in March. The university was chosen out of 529 applicants for a proposed project called Driving Adoption: Smart Manufacturing Technologies, which aims to empower the adoption of productivity-enhancing technologies to promote manufacturing competitiveness and profitability in the Wichita region The coalition proposes to expand semiconductor testing, evaluate semiconductor manufacturing, grow resiliency of smart manufacturing, employ an additive manufacturing strategy, expand the workforce, and establish a cyber manufacturing convening with the goal of creating job growth."
"Binghamton University is on to the next round in a competition to win 100 million dollars to create a battery manufacturing hub in Greater Binghamton. U-S Senator Chuck Schumer announced today that B-U is a Phase 1 winner in the Build Back Better Regional Challenge which is a program of President Biden's American Rescue Plan which passed last Spring. As a Phase 1 winner, B-U and its partners receive half a million dollars to develop its proposal for Phase 2 and the 100 million."
"U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo today announced the 60 finalists for the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) $1 billion 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' - the marquee of EDA's American Rescue Plan programs - that aims to boost economic pandemic recovery and rebuild American communities, including some that have been grappling with decades of disinvestment. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge provides transformative investments - up to $100 million per grantee - to develop and strengthen regional industry clusters across the country, all while embracing economic equity, creating good-paying jobs, and enhancing U.S. competitiveness globally."
"A project that would create a financial hub for Native American communities in North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming and Montana is one of 60 finalists in the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) Build Back Better Regional Challenge, according to a news release from the U.S. Department Commerce. The Four Bands Community Fund received $500,000 that can be used to pursue an award of up to $100 million in phase 2 of the program. The plans for the project, called the Mountain Plains Regional Indigenous Finance Industry, include a revolving loan fund, an innovations center and workforce and professional development."
"A healthcare workforce and technology proposal for Northwest Arkansas led by the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences is in the running to receive about $75 million in requested federal funding. The effort is among 60 finalists from around the nation announced Monday by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Each finalist receives approximately $500,000 in federal grant money as part of the $1 billion competition known as the Build Back Better Regional Challenge."
"On Monday, Manchester was named as one of the finalists for Phase 2 of the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration (EDA) 
. Manchester reached Phase 2 after being chosen as one of the applicants phasing Phase 1 of the process, which included 529 projects from all 50 states and five U.S. territories. The 60 participants in Phase 2 will receive $500,000 to develop studies to present plans that could result in anywhere from $5 to $100 million for successful applications, with a submission deadline of March 15, 2022."
"The University of Memphis was announced Monday as one of the finalists for the $1 billion Build Back Better Regional Challenge. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge is one of the U.S. Economic Development Administration's American Rescue Plan programs and aims to boost economic recovery from the pandemic. The University of Memphis is one of 60 finalists. Each finalist will receive a grant of approximately $500,000 to further develop their proposal."
"The University of Rhode Island Research Foundation, in conjunction with Rhode Island Commerce and a regional team focused on the growing blue economy, has successfully competed against hundreds of regional teams across the country to be selected by the U.S. Economic Development Administration as a finalist in the nation-wide Build Back Better Regional Challenge."
"The 2025 Clean Tech Economic Coalition (CTEC), led by mHUB, a Chicago-based hardtech and manufacturing innovation center, has been recognized by the US Economic Development Administration for its potential to accelerate the transformation of the region's economy by growing clean energy technologies. The CTEC is made up of 19 partnering organizations – including the University of Chicago – which are rallied around six major initiatives related to manufacturing and supply chain, workforce development, applied research, entrepreneurship and commercialization, and infrastructure in Illinois."
"Today, U.S. Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Chair of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), led the New Hampshire congressional delegation in applauding the EDA's announcement that the City of Manchester will be awarded $500,000 through the 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' program, which targets projects that boost economic recovery. Manchester's project is organized by a coalition – led by the City – with partnerships through the Advanced Regenerative Manufacturing Institute, Southern New Hampshire University, Manchester-Boston Regional Airport and the Manchester Transit Authority, and will establish a cluster located within and around the City to grow the regenerative medicine industry by boosting production and distribution of regenerative tissues and organs."
"U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo today announced the 60 finalists for the U.S. Economic Development Administration's (EDA) $1 billion 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' – the marquee of EDA's American Rescue Plan programs – that aims to boost economic pandemic recovery and rebuild American communities, including some that have been grappling with decades of disinvestment. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge provides transformative investments – up to $100 million per grantee – to develop and strengthen regional industry clusters across the country, all while embracing economic equity, creating good-paying jobs, and enhancing U.S. competitiveness globally."
"US Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo today announced 60 finalists from the US Department of Economic Development (EDA)'s $1 billion 'Build Back Better Regional Challenge' (Marquee of EDA's American Rescue Plan Program). Includes those that have been working on investment cuts for decades. The Build Back Better Regional Challenge is a transformative investment (granted) to develop and strengthen regional industrial clusters across the country while embracing economic fairness, creating high-paying jobs, and strengthening US competitiveness globally. We provide up to $100 million per person)."