Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on National Press Club Election Day, where your pooler has been tested and ready to go ahead.
Here's today's schedule, and a reminder that the president will be a guest on Jimmy Fallon at 11:30 p.m. tonight.
;
We've assembled at the Palm Room doors for the trip to the late Sen. Bob Dole's funeral at the National Cathedral. The ceremony itself will be televised, but I will send color and highlights.
The motorcade has departed and we're heading to Sen. Dole's funeral. We did not see the president enter his vehicle.
We are viewing the service from a balcony. A choir sang as we entered her cathedral and now a hush as a bell rang.
Senator Dole's casket was carried in by members of the armed services.
The Very Rev. Randolph Marshall Hollerith, dean of the cathedral, welcomed the attendants by calling Senator Dole "one of the greatest of the greatest generation."
President Biden sat with first lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and second gentleman Doug Emhoff.
In his tribute to Sen. Dole, whom he served with in the Senate, President Biden began by talking of the senator's heroism during World War II and talked about his courage, goodness and grit.
"God, what courage Bob Dole had," Biden said.
Please check against transcript.
"I found Bob to be a man of principle. pragmatism and enormous integrity," he said.
Biden also discussed Dole's willingness to cross party lines on issues like Social Security and gave him credit for the Martin Luther King Jr. national holiday.
" He never forgot the people who sent him to Washington'" and "lived by a code of honor" and "was a man of his word," Biden said.
While Dole "could be partisan," Biden said, "he was a patriot."
"Taps is now sounding for this giant of our time," he said.
"I salute you, my friend."
From the White House.
In attendance for Senator Bob Dole's memorial service at the Washington National Cathedral, along with the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman:
The White House says the briefing will begin when the pool returns.
After the president, former Sens. Pat Roberts (R) and Tom Daschle (D).also spoke, as did Dole's daughter, Robin.
We are heading back to the vans.
White House now says the briefing won't take place until after the president's closing remarks to his Democracy Summit.
After an uneventful trip, we're back at the White House. Next up is the Democracy Summit, followed by the White House press briefing
No rest for the weary. We're in the South Court Auditorium awaiting the president. He'll be speaking from behind a podium to a camera. There are no conference attendees present.
The speech will being live streamed at 
.
While waiting for the president to speak, we heard, "Prestige and Progress," by Stuart Crombie.
He is standing by himself behind a podium with the presidential seal. The walls have the words. "Summit for Democracy " with its logo.
In his speech, he called for passage of voting legislation in Congress. He also answered questions after his speech.
Check.against transcript
He declined to comment on the Supreme Court Texas decision, saying he hadn't read it yet.
On inflation, he blamed it on supply chain woes, not government spending and said his BBB bill would lower inflation by lowering the costs of things like child care.
He said inflation was "a real bump in the road."
On BBB bill "It's reducing costs for ordinary Americans."
He said the rest of the economy was doing well, but with infllation, the focus was "all on the downside."
"Inflation is affecting people's lives."
He said it was a "supply chain problem" as COVID had an impact on producing products.
[
]
[
]
[
]
Thanks to Geoff Earle and Otter, a partial recording of Biden's Q&A. It's not a full transcript because some words were indecipherable.
There was no good broadcast recording because as Biden started to take questions, music started blaring.
"Every other aspect of the economy is racing ahead, doing incredibly well. We've never had this kind of growth in 60 years."
"But inflation is affecting people's lives."
"What's inflation all about? They're paying more for things they need than they had to pay before. That's the bottom line."
Build Back Better will reduce costs of child care, health care costs.
"The reason why people think is going to, why economists think it's going to, in fact, diminish the impact on prices is because it's reducing costs for ordinary people."
"Downside is prices have gone up because of supply chain concerns."
Will see gas prices go down.
"It's a real bump in the road. It does affect families. You walk into a grocery store and you're paying more for whatever you're purchasing."
Government spending? "That's not the reason for inflation. The reason for inflation that we have a supply chain problem that is really severe."
Pool never heard a question that apparently was about Joe Manchin -- someone had drowned it out asking a question that was not answered -- but Biden said he would meet with him next week. That's what Jen Psaki said at the briefing today, referencing that exchange that we could not hear.
[
]
If you want the entire Biden Q&A, it's on C-SPAN at 
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening, I'm tapping in as pooler for POTUS's departure, which is still scheduled for 5:45pm. Pool is gathering ahead of departure.
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the White House residence at 5:48pm, holding hands and masked. They waved at the pool but did not stop to respond to shouted questions and boarded M1 at 5:49pm. They took off at 5:53pm.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One:
· Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
· Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
· Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Handing off to out of town pool, have a great weekend.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening from Delaware. I'll be your print pooler this weekend.
Marine One landed in Brandywine Creek State Park at 6:45pm.
POTUS and FLOTUS disembarked at 6:47pm and proceeded directly to the motorcade
Motorcade began rolling at 6:49pm.
It is a mostly clear evening with light cloud and a less-than-balmy temperature of 41 degrees.
Pool was COVID-tested this morning in D.C.
Motorcade proceed without incident or notable sights, arriving at 7:00pm at the Biden residence, where a lid was immediately called.
Enjoy your Friday night, everyone.