Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning on President Biden's last morning in Nantucket. Your pool has been Covid tested and swept and is now holding near the POTUS/FLOTUS residence ahead of their flight back to DC.
According to the White House we have a 12:25 pm departure for Air Force One from Nantucket, arriving at JBA 1:50 pm.
POTUS motorcade rolling to airport from Nantucket residence at 12:19 pm. A half dozen onlookers stood at the crossroads, including a woman with a handmade sign that read "Mr President ACK (heart) YOU."
Sharing this note From a White House official:
This afternoon, the President will have an in-person briefing with members of his COVID-19 response team and Chief Medical Advisor to the President Dr. Fauci to provide an update on the Omicron variant and the Administration's response.
Motorcade arrived alongside AF1 at 12:28 pm after whipping through Nantucket, passing dozens of well wishers and/or curious onlookers, including a man with a sign reading "Blessings and thank you."
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded AF1 without stopping to talk to pool. The president, wearing a baseball cap, gave a wave from the top of the steps. Several family members also got in, including Hunter, Melissa and baby Beau. We are wheels up soon.
AF1 landed at JBA at 1:54 pm, just four minutes beyond the schedule announced this morning.
Karine Jean-Pierre stopped by the press cabin for a chat on OFF. Otherwise the flight was uneventful.
POTUS, who disembarked with FLOTUS at 2:05 pm, came over to pool in response to shouted questions. Asked whether he was considering additional Covid travel restrictions, he answered through a mask: "I'm having a meeting with my medical team as I get back to the White House. I'll have more to say."
He didn't stay for more questions. As always, please check against the transcript.
The president and first lady are motorcading back to the White House. So, with thanks to fellow poolers on this memorable Thanksgiving trip, handing over to the In Town pool.
Passing along this from the White House for the record:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews:
Col. Matthew Getty, 89th Operations Group Commander
Mrs. Angela Getty
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from a beautifully sunny and crisp day at JBA. As your pool was arriving here to pre-set, The Beast was getting a quick buff and shine and was gleaming in the sun.
AF1 was wheels down at 1:54 pm.
In-town pool stayed in the motorcade vans as POTUS deplaned at 2:05 pm, wearing a baseball cap and accompanied by a crew of family.
We're rolling back to the White House as of 2:08 pm.
If anyone else is wondering why the motorcade on such a splendid day, pool did notice a truck parked outside the South Lawn entrance as we were leaving the White House.
Motorcade pulled into the WH at 2:30 pm after an uneventful drive. Plenty of waving and photographing onlookers crowded along the Mall to catch a glimpse of us coming back.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the residence. Whatever activity there was on the South Lawn earlier is not here at the moment.
After a stretch so quiet at the White House that the pool could hear the demonstrations in Lafayette Park through the closed windows in the press room, we have a travel/photo lid as of 4pm.
Always a pleasure sharing the day with your inboxes, have a wonderful Sunday!
The White House has distributed this photo to the pool. It is a photo of the President's meeting with his COVID-19 Response Team on the latest developments related to the Omicron variant.
Knowing that attachments do not go through the WH distribution system, I will tweet the photo @talkopan as well.