Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a quiet White House, where it's 50 degrees outside and overcast.
Only update on the sked is POTUS's Fed announcement in the South Court Auditorium at 1:20 pm. Live stream can be viewed here: 
... until 12:45
Till Fed announcement
Live stream available here: WhiteHouse.gov/live
Potus entered the South Court Auditorium with Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell and Potus’ choice for vice chair, Fed governor Lael Brainard, at 1:19.
Also in attendance in the audience: treasury secy Janet Yellen and Ms. Brainard’s mother (overheard introducing herself to another guest).
Potus began by commenting on the tragedy in Waukesha, Wisconsin, then turned to the economy.
Potus is wearing dark suit, white shirt, blue speckled tie.
More TK
Potus finished his remarks at 1:35 and invited Fed Chair Jay Powell to speak. He wrapped up at 1:38. Potus then invited Dr. Brainard to speak. She wrapped up at 1:40.
Potus wished all a happy thanksgiving and declined to answer shouted questions from reporters as he walked out, including one on reports he plans to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
Also in the auditorium: NEC director Brian Deese.
Pool escorted out at 1:42
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the central portico from the White House toward the South Lawn at 4:08 pm.
Potus ignored shouted questions.
FLOTUS had changed into a dark shirt and jacket ensemble from her earlier, festive outfit Potus in dark suit, no overcoat on an increasingly chilly day.
Baby Beau watched - and the adult or teenager holding him waved at departing Bidens - from the second balcony.
Marine One lifted off at 4:12 pm, en route JBA, then Fort Bragg for Friendsgiving with service members.
From the press office:
Traveling on Marine One with the President and the First Lady:
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 10:26 pm. POTUS and FLOTUS emerged a few minutes later, and walked into the White House together. The first couple held hands for part of the stroll. Potus waved at the pool, didn’t stop to chat.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 10:30.
Note re pool report 6: per a press office source, the young woman holding Baby Beau on the balcony watching the Bidens take off on Marine One earlier today was Finnegan Biden, one of the baby's older sisters. Hunter Biden is their father.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
It’s a crisp pre-Thanksgiving day here at JBA. It’s chilly, but sunny.
I'll be your print pooler for POTUS trip to Fort Bragg, N.C., where he will share a Friendsgiving meal with U.S. troops. We are expecting rain in Fort Bragg.
No announced changes to POTUS schedule, which is below.
Also a reminder, the press gaggle with Jen Psaki is at 4:50 and you can listen here:
Don't hesitate to contact me with any questions.
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded AF1 at roughly 4:25.
POTUS waived to press but did not take questions.
Per White House, here is who is traveling with POTUS
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Colonel Matt Getty, Commander, 89th Operations Group
Angela Getty, Spouse of Colonel Matt Getty
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Fort Bragg, North Carolina:
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning, NSC
Rory Brosius, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director, Joining Forces
Michael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Jordan Montoya, Director of Advance & Trip Director for the First Lady
Wheels up at roughly 4:34.
Wheels down at 5:26
Just sharing some quick highlights on the AF1 press gaggle
Jen declined to speak to a question on Ahmad Aubrey citing that the case is still going on
No trip to Waukesha currently scheduled
On Russian troops building up on Ukrainian border, no meeting between POTUS and Putin scheduled.
"We are in touch with European leaders" about the situation. "We continue to have concerns" about Russian military aggression.
Check the transcript for exact quotes.
Hundreds of troops lined up to greet POTUS and FLOTUS who walked off AF1 at 5:34.
POTUS and FLOTUS stopped, shook hands and chatted with military greeters.
Travel pool was too far away to hear POTUS and FLOTUS talk to greeters
POTUS did not approach pool or take questions
Upon arrival at Fort Bragg, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
General Michael X. Garrett, Commanding General, US Army Forces Command
Lorelei Garrett, Spouse of General Garrett
Command Sergeant Major Todd W. Sims, Senior Enlisted Advisor, US Army Forces Command
Cosy Sims, Spouse of Command Sergeant Major Todd Sims
Lieutenant General Michael E. Kurilla, Commanding General, 18th Airborne Corps
Mary Paige Kurilla, Spouse of Lieutenant General Michael Kurilla
Command Sergeant Major Thomas J. Holland, Senior Enlisted Advisor, 18th Airborne Corps
Colonel John Cogbill, Chief of Staff, 18th Airborne Corps
Jenny Cogbill, Spouse of Colonel John Cogbill
Your pooler has taken some photos of today’s Friendsgiving event with POTUS and FLOTUS
Your pooler is working to find out just how many troops are here
Here’s a link to my Twitter with some photos @JeffMordock
Participating in photo line with POTUS and FLOTUS, per White House, are
Governor Roy Cooper (NC)
First Lady Kristin Cooper (NC)
Representative David Price (NC-04)
Representative G.K. Butterfield (NC-01)
Representative Alma Adams (NC-12)
Representative Deborah Ross (NC-02)
Representative Kathy Manning (NC-06)
Mayor Mitch Colvin (Fayetteville)
Walter Gaskin (Lt. Gen., USMC Ret.), North Carolina Secretary of Military and Veteran Affairs
Per White House, here is the speaking order for today’s Friendsgiving
Sergeant First Class Justin Dixon and Tawny Dixon, Fort Bragg Army Family of the Year
The First Lady
The President
Chaplain Hyung Choi
FLOTUS thanked the troops for all their sacrifices. She recalled Beau Biden's service, who was deployed to Iraq and Kosovo.
"And I know what it feels like for all of your families here because you won't be home for the holidays. And I know what it's like to see that at the table and just feel like give out just how hard it is for the families. So I want to thank all of you. That's why we came to have dinner with you to say thank you to you."
"We're so grateful for everything that you do. And Joe and I feel like you know your family to us. And we cannot thank you enough."
As always check quotes against transcript
POTUS also thanked the troops, following FLOTUS
Some quotes (and as always check transcript)
" I know how hard it is to have someone who's not at the table on holiday that are in harm's way to find themselves out of the country. And because that's what every time my our son was in Iraq for a year before that in Kosovo."
"You do so much and your families give so much. I really mean it. From the bottom of my heart, the finest the finest military that the world has ever seen. That's not hyperbole."
"You literally are the finest the world has ever seen. And so damn proud associated with and it's hard for me to even say it but the thing that's amazing to me is how proud I am to be your commander and you are the most incredible group of women and men that we've ever seen. And so I just want to thank you so much."
POTUS has begun serving stuffing while wearing an apron with the presidential seal on it.
Link to photo here
An unofficial count by your pooler estimates about 300 attendees (troops and their families) here.
FLOTUS is serving mashed potatoes per White House
Per White House,
In attendance at Friendsgiving are approximately 250 attendees including elected officials, service members, and family members of deployed soldiers.
POTUS and FLOTUS have stopped serving food and have begun to mingle with the crowd, stopping at tables and posting for photos with the troops.
Your pooler is too far away to hear the conversations.
POTUS and FLOTUS left the hanger where the dinner was at roughly 7:50. Both mingled with guests and posed for photos on their way out.
As POTUS left, he mouthed the words "thank you" and raised his fist in the air. The troops responded with raucous applause.
Pool is making its way back onto the tarmac.
POTUS motorcade just left the tarmac.
Pool is holding at hanger where dinner was.
Unclear why pool isn't following POTUS on visit.
Per White House —
The President is going to visit with members of the Fort Bragg Special Operations community. These men and women often serve as the "tip of the spear" in our nation's military operations, and the President wants to convey his and the nation's gratitude for their continued service and sacrifice.
The motorcade with POTUS and FLOTUS returned to AF1. They boarded at roughly 9:10.
POTUS did not take questions from the pool.
WH up at roughly 9:17 as we depart a very chilly North Carolina.
Wheels down at 9:59 pm. Flight was uneventful.
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Marine One at 10:10.
Marine One wheels up at 10:13
POTUS did not take questions.
Now handing it off back to In-Town Pool.
It was a pleasure being your pooler.
Happy and safe Thanksgiving everyone!!
Per White Hiuse POTUS and FLOTUS were greeted.by
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Colonel Matt Getty, Commander, 89th Operations Group
SSgt Aleasha Duggins