Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Monday morning! Your pooler has been tested and call time is 11am. The briefing is scheduled for 1pm.
Passing along from the White House:
Today the President will convene a hybrid (in-person and virtual) roundtable with CEOs and leaders of major retailers, consumer products firms, and grocers. In attendance for the roundtable with the President:
In person:
o Corie Barry, CEO, Best Buy
o Meg Ham, President, Food Lion
o KS Choi, CEO, Samsung
o David Rawlinson, CEO, Qurate Retail Group
o Carlos Castro, CEO, Todos Supermarket
o Josh Silverman, CEO, Etsy
o Ynon Kreiz, CEO, Mattel
o Rodney McMullen, CEO, Kroger
Virtual:
o Doug McMillon, CEO, Walmart
o Karen Lynch, CEO, CVS Health
Also on today's schedule:
[RSVP here by 12:00 PM EST]
???Pool is gathering for the president's remarks on the Omicron variant.
Remarks were scheduled for 11:45am and we don't have an update on timing.
Remarks will be in the Roosevelt Room and streamed in the usual spot: 
Passing along from the White House—
In attendance for the President's remarks providing an update on the Omicron variant:
Vice President Harris
Dr. Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor to the President
?2 minute warning for the president's remarks on the Omicron variant.
Remarks ended at 12:10pm and then the president took 6 questions.
The remarks were live streamed but here are some excerpts:
"You have to get your vaccine, you have to get the shot, you have to get the booster"
Said the Omicron variant is not a cause for panic, but a cause for concern. ?
"We're going to fight and beat this new variant as well," he said, comparing it to the Delta variant.
"A fully vaccinated, boosted person is the most protected against COVID."
"As additional protection, please wear your masks indoors in public settings around other people."
In the event updated vaccinations or boosters are needed "we will accelerate their development and deployment with every available tool"
"We do not yet believe that additional measures will be needed"
He said his team is working with Pfizer, Moderna and J&J for contingency plans if needed.
"All of this is confusing to a lot of people… if you are vaccinated but still worried about the new variant, get your booster. If you aren't vaccinated, get that shot. Go get that first shot."
The president said on Thursday, he will put forward a detailed strategy to fight COVID this winter. He said it won't include lockdowns but instead vaccinations and testing.
"We can't let up until the world is vaccinated."
"We're throwing everything we can at this virus, tracking it from every angle"
He was asked about if other countries will be reluctant to report Omicron cases and if the US is doing anything to screen international travelers, which Fauci answered.
He was also asked about his comments that masks should be worn indoors, if lockdowns are off the table, if the White House is considering testing for domestic flights, and travel restrictions.
2 minute warning for the briefing.
The briefing has started.
Briefing ended at 1:55pm. The pool is now gathering for a spray of the president's meeting with CEOs.
The meeting was scheduled for 2pm in the EOP Library. It is a hybrid (in-person and virtual) roundtable with CEOs and leaders of major retailers, consumer products firms, and grocers.
At the president's meeting with CEOs, 8 CEOs sat at the table with Biden as well as Brian Deese, Director of the National Economic Council, andCedric Richmond, Senior Advisor.
POTUS delivered remarks and then Meg Ham (President of Food Lion) and Doug McMillon (CEO of Walmart) spoke.
POTUS filled the CEOs in on the Omicron variant and reiterated that Americans should get vaccinated and get the booster shot.
POTUS: "I remember and I think we all do, last year, families celebrating the holidays apart from one another or on video for fear of spreading a deadly virus. And this year, thanks to scientists, researchers, and doctors who developed the COVID-19 vaccines and the nurses and other frontline workers who saw to it that it was administered, many of them your employees in your stores, we're able to have a very different Thanksgiving... than last Thanksgiving. Reunited with friends and families and I think maybe most important, with a little more hope. A little more hope."
POTUS: "Consumer spending has recovered to where it was headed before the pandemic. Early estimates are that Black Friday sales were up nearly a third since last year and in store sales were up by even more than that."
POTUS: "We're hearing similar reports from Small Business Saturday, I don't have those numbers yet. And I'm sure some people watching us online are also doing a little Cyber Monday shopping right now and that's why I brought everyone together today."
He said he wants to hear from CEOs about what they're seeing this holiday season, how well prepared they are to overcome supply chain challenges, what challenges small businesses are facing, and how the federal government can continue partnering with them to get goods moving.
Biden asked Ham how much work Food Lion does with local farmers and asked her if there's any one product that was harder to get than others. She said there wasn't one particular one.
Putting the list of participants again here:
In person:
o Corie Barry, CEO, Best Buy
o Meg Ham, President, Food Lion
o KS Choi, CEO, Samsung
o David Rawlinson, CEO, Qurate Retail Group
o Carlos Castro, CEO, Todos Supermarket
o Josh Silverman, CEO, Etsy
o Ynon Kreiz, CEO, Mattel
o Rodney McMullen, CEO, Kroger
Virtual:
o Doug McMillon, CEO, Walmart
o Karen Lynch, CEO, CVS Health
Forwarding the updated guidance from the White House. Remarks on supply chains were scheduled for 3:45pm.
The President will no longer deliver remarks following his meeting with CEOs. These remarks will be delivered on Wednesday, December 1.
The President held a pool spray with reporters at the top of the CEO event and wanted to ensure ample time spent with the business leaders who traveled to the White House today. The President will deliver additional remarks on Wednesday on the economy, supply chains and lowering costs for the American people.
Travel/photo lid called at 4:01pm.
Have a nice evening!
Passing along from the White House--
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 November 29, 2021
 Background on BIL for the President’s Visit to Minnesota
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will make a generational investment in Minnesota’s infrastructure and resilience.
· In Minnesota, there are 661 bridges and over 4,986 miles of highway in poor condition.
· Based on formula funding alone, Minnesota will receive
.
· Minnesota residents who take public transportation spend an extra 50% of their time commuting. 11% of transit vehicles in the state are past useful life.
· Based on formula funding alone, Minnesota will receive
.
· The U.S. market share of plug-in electric vehicle (EV) sales is only one-third the size of the Chinese EV market.
· Minnesota will expect to receive
 
in the state.
· 19% of Minnesota households do not have a home broadband connection.
· Minnesota will receive a minimum allocation of 
.
· Currently, up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and child care centers lack safe drinking water.
· Minnesota would expect to receive 
 in the state.
· From 2010 to 2020, Minnesota experienced 11 extreme weather events, costing the state up to $10 billion in damages.
· The law includes a 
 to strengthen our infrastructure for the impacts of climate change.
Dakota County Technical College serves 2,900 credit students and 10,000 non-credit students through a partnership with nearby Inver Hills Community College. The mission of the college is to provide education for employment, and it offers hands-on learning through more than 50 academic programs across multiple disciplines. The campus also hosts technical education for high school students through programs including construction trades and heavy-duty truck technology.
 and the programs provided by community and technical colleges like Dakota County Technical College will provide the training and skill development needed to help workers access the jobs created by the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
Some of the infrastructure-related programs and specialties offered at the college include civil engineering, construction management, electrical construction and maintenance, electrical lineworker, and welding technology, all of which will be needed to implement the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. For example, 
 to accommodate renewable power sources and be resilient to climate change and cyber threats.
Also, Dakota County Technical College hosts a number of transportation-related programs. 
 The college also hosts the Minnesota State Commercial Driving Skills Center to recruit and train commercial truck drivers to meet current and anticipated industry demands for Commercial Drivers License (CDL) certifications. 
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, paired with the historic $24 billion investments in workforce development in the President’s Build Back Better Agenda, will prepare millions of workers for high-quality jobs in growing sectors and will help rebuild and transform the workforce
 by building the capacity of community colleges to train millions of Americans for the high-growth jobs of the future. Some of these critical investments include:
· 
: Provides community colleges with resources to develop and expand high-quality workforce training programs through innovative partnerships between community colleges, local and regional employers, public workforce system entities, unions, and community-based organizations. A portion of these funds will be dedicated to community colleges in underserved communities, to create high-quality training pipelines for all Americans.
· 
 A comprehensive approach to workforce development that leverages public/private partnerships between industry, educational institutions, and worker groups to provide high-quality, training and needed wraparound services. It will create an ecosystem of industry partnerships, with community colleges as a central partner, that directly inform these large-scale training efforts and a stable forum for hiring skilled workers into growing, high demand sectors such as clean energy, manufacturing, education and caregiving. SECTOR will also prioritize training and comprehensive supports for dislocated workers transitioning to new careers and other underserved communities.
· BBB also includes foundational investments in the existing public workforce system and programs supporting underserved communities, such as Registered Apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships, and adult education and literacy.