Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! Your in-town pooler will have a more comprehensive breakdown of today’s busy schedule closer to call time, but per the White House, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm will be joining today’s press briefing.
Good afternoon from the White House, where your pooler has been tested and is enjoying the bright autumn sunshine ahead of a full day for President Biden before he departs for the Thanksgiving holiday.
At 2 p.m. Eastern, the president will deliver a speech "on the economy and lowering prices for the American people," per the White House guidance. He will likely also address this morning's announcement that the United States will release 50 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The remarks will be livestreamed 
.
At 3.15 p.m. Eastern, Jen Psaki will brief reporters (also streamable) although your pooler may be skiving out slightly early to join President Biden, Dr. Biden, Vice President Harris and Doug Emhoff for a service project at DC Central Kitchen, a non-profit community kitchen that recycles food from Washington-area caterers, restaurants, and hotels to provide meals for those in need. DC Central Kitchen also trains adults — who prepare roughly 5,000 meals per day for homeless shelters, rehabilitation clinics, and after-school programs — for careers in the culinary industry.
Afterwards, President and Dr. Biden will travel directly from DC Central Kitchen to Joint Base Andrews, where they are scheduled to depart for Nantucket at 6.10 p.m. Eastern.
The pool is gathering for President Biden’s remarks on the economy in the South Court Auditorium, scheduled for 2 p.m. Eastern.
President Biden’s remarks can be 
.
In the meantime, the South Court Auditorium’s sound system has been playing some deeply soothing jazz (Chet Baker's "Darn That Dream," specifically) to your pooler’s delight.
Missed the link? 
.
President Biden finished speaking at 2.32 p.m. Eastern, and did not respond to questions from reporters.
The briefing 
 (
)
This is the last livestream link, 
: 
The briefing ended at 4.00 p.m. Eastern.
Perfect timing, because the pool is gathering for this afternoon’s service event with President Biden, Dr. Biden, Vice President Harris and Doug Emhoff.
The presidential motorcade departed the White House at 4.24 p.m. Eastern, headed to DC Central Kitchen. The press van is in hot pursuit.
The motorcade arrived at DC Central Kitchen at 4.32 p.m. Eastern.
President Biden, Dr. Biden, Vice President Harris and Doug Emhoff walked through the kitchen at DC Central Kitchen, where employees and volunteers are assembling meals for Washington residents in need. Both POTUS and SGOTUS sported black baseball caps embroidered with DC Central Kitchen's logo.
Each of the four principals shook hands — or, in the vice president's case, bumped elbows — with the folks preparing the meals, which included helpings of turkey, green beans, what appeared to be a squash casserole, and cranberry sauce. Mike Curtin, the CEO of DC Central Kitchen, then provided an overview of the non-profit’s work. Nearby, your pooler spotted celebrity chef José Andrés, who serves on DC Central Kitchen's board, as well as several spatchcocked turkeys.
The four principals then split up to different stations, with President Biden and Vice President Harris taking the turkey, and Dr. Biden and Doug Emhoff the casserole. Holiday music, a selection of Lea Michele and Straight No Chaser, played as the principals helped assemble the meals. President Biden continued discussing DC Central Kitchen's work with Curtin as he helped assemble meals, although most of the conversation was inaudible to your pooler.
Vice President Harris and Doug eventually joined the first couple's table, with the vice president on string bean duty and Doug finishing off the meals with gravy.
A list of those who traveled with President Biden and Dr. Biden, per the White House:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary, NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Before the pool was ushered out, one reporter asked President Biden what he was thankful for this Thanksgiving. The president put an arm on the shoulder of the gentleman working in the line next to him, Dawain Arrington, and said "the man standing right next to me."
The pool was then led out of the kitchen.
Masks and distance being what they are, your pooler slightly misheard President Biden's comment at DC Central Kitchen. Upon reviewing audio, he said that he was thankful for "the people standing right next to me," not "the man."
The motorcade is now on the move to JBA, from which President Biden and Dr. Biden will depart for Nantucket for the holiday.
The trip is something of an anniversary for the Bidens — their first holiday together as a couple was Thanksgiving '75, which they spent on the island with sons Beau and Hunter. This year, they are expected to stay at the vacation home of David Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle Group.
The motorcade arrived at JBA at 5.54 p.m. Eastern.
Traveling with President Biden and Dr. Biden to Nantucket, per the wranglers:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Presidenr Biden and Dr. Biden boarded Air Force One (the little plane) at 5.57 p.m. Eastern.
Your in-town pooler is handing off to the travel pool — thank you all for reading, and have a wonderful holiday!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon from a very chilly JBA where the president and first lady arrived by motorcade at 5:54 pm. They boarded (the small) Air Force One and we are wheels up very shortly for Nantucket, where the Bidens are spending Thanksgiving.
POTUS did not come over to talk to your pool under the wing, only giving us a wave and a salute after he mounted the stairs. He wore a baseball cap, no tie and was coatless, carrying a blazer in his hand. FLOTUS wore knee high boots and carried flowers. Flight time is a little over an hour.
Boarding ahead of the president, after arriving in a separate motorcade at 5:45 pm, were what appeared to be family members, including a baby who very much looked like grandson baby Beau. Pool is asking for details.
The White House sent this list of travelers.
Traveling on Air Force One with the President and the First Lady:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
AF1 landed at Nantucket Memorial Airport at 7:10 pm. Pool had an OTR visit during the flight from Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre during the otherwise uneventful flight.
The first couple, bundled up in coats and wearing masks, deplaned at 7:23 pm and entered the motorcade without talking to pool. Family members, including baby Hunter and an unidentified dog, filed off next, also entering the motorcade.
We are rolling at 7:25 pm.
The White House provided this info on family accompanying the president and where they will be staying on the island.
xxx
This evening, the President and Dr. Biden are traveling to Nantucket Island, Massachusetts to celebrate the Thanksgiving holiday as they have done for 46 years. They are scheduled to return to Washington on Sunday, December 28, 2021.
Joining them are: Hunter, Melissa, Ashley, Naomi, Finnegan, Maisy, Natalie, Hunter, and Beau Biden; and, Peter Neal, Naomi’s fiancé.
The First Family will stay at the home of their friend, David Rubenstein, as they have done previously.
The president's motorcade pulled up at the property where the Bidens are staying at 7:36 pm, following a swift drive along narrow roads. Pool could not see the president before the president bus peeled away. Clusters of well wishers waved at the start of the trip by the airport but there was then nothing to see: out of town Nantucket at night is exceedingly dark. One woman was heard yelling: "welcome back!"
Apologies, the baby referred to disembarking from AF1 was of course baby Beau, not Hunter.
At 7:40 pm the White House called a travel/photo lid.
Thanks to co-pooler Catherine Lucey for assists. Good night.
The White House points out that the info they provided earlier on the president’s plans had the obvious typo in the date of his return to Washington, which is November 28, not December.