Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello everyone, we’re waiting to gather before the first event of the day, which is POTUS remarks on supply chains.
All three events, plus the briefing, are expected to be livestreamed on the White House website. 
?Pool assembled in South Court auditorium several minutes ago. Check live stream for POTUS remarks.
POTUS ended at 1:24 after taking a few questions. The final question was about his thoughts on Trump testing positive before their debate.
"I don't think about the former president,"
Biden said and then walked out of the room.
Stay tuned for briefing with Jen Psaki and Dr. Fauci.
It started at 1:53. Dr. Fauci confirmed first Omicron case in California.
?The briefing is still underway but the pool is gathering for next POTUS event now. We arrived in the East Room at 2:39.
According to the White House —
In attendance for the President’s remarks to commemorate World AIDS Day are approximately 80 invited guests including members of Congress, administration officials, local elected officials, and advocates.
Speaking Program:
Xavier Becerra, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Gabriel Maldonado, HIV/AIDS Advocate, CEO and Founder of TruEvolution
The President
?For those watching, that was Marguerite Wheeler-Lara, mother of Gabriel Maldonado, that briefly joined POTUS on stage.
POTUS finished speaking at 3:33.
In case you couldn’t see on the live stream, he East Room is decked out for holidays. There are several Christmas trees, plus wreaths hanging over the mirrors.
As a reminder, there’s one more event on the schedule today.
The pool returned to the East Room at 5:18. We’re waiting for Hanukkah event to start.
?Biden entered the room at 5:41. First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Harris and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff entered with him. The East Room is packed with people sitting in rows of chairs.
Here are some details from the White House.
The Menorah used during this event is the Liberty Bell menorah, designed by Manfred Anson. It is on loan from the National Museum of American Jewish History (NMAJH), in Philadelphia. The artist, Manfred Anson (1922-2012), was a Holocaust survivor and collector of Judaica, who designed this menorah in honor of Philadelphia's very own Liberty Bell. The bells were cast from a souvenir 
 that Anson collected after immigrating to the US, and each is inscribed with the name of a Jewish American.
The Liberty Bell at Independence Hall in Philadelphia is inscribed with a passage from Leviticus (25:10), "Proclaim Liberty Throughout All the Land Unto All the Inhabitants thereof." This phrase is featured prominently on the menorah.
Tonight's event will mark the first time Hanukkah is celebrated with a Jewish member of either the First or Second Family, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.
Speaking Program:
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
The Vice President
The President
Rabbi Lauren Holtzblatt, Adas Israel Congregation, Senior Rabbi
Lighting Participants:
Dr. Rabbi Aaron Glatt
Susan Stern, Jewish Community Leader
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer
?The event ended at 6:10.
The White House sends this correction to its earlier note:
Tonight’s event will mark the first time Hanukkah is celebrated with a Jewish spouse of a President or Vice President, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff.
(The previous note said it was the first time with a Jewish member of the First or Second Family, which was inaccurate because Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner are Jewish.)
We have a travel/photo lid at 6:44. Good night everyone.