Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I'm your in-town print pooler on this chilly Tuesday early morning.
The president entered the motorcade at 7:18 am and we're rolling to an undisclosed location.
I'll be in touch. Pasting the rest of the White House schedule here:
At 7:20, the motorcade arrived at the WII memorial. Passing along from the White House.
The President and the First Lady are visiting the World War II Memorial to mark National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day and honor the American patriots who died as a result of their service at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941.
The president and First Lady entered the World War II memorial at 7:20 am from the Pacific tower. The president walked towards a wreath at the center point of the memorial, waved to the press and saluted the wreath and 7:25 am.
The wreath contained 1 wild sunflower, the state flower of Kansas, in honor of Senator Bob Dole, according to the White House. First Lady Jill Biden then touched the wreath with her right hand before taking a moment of silence.
The president then did the sign of the cross before walking back to the New Jersey pillar at 7:26 am. The First Lady then laid a bouquet at the New Jersey pillar in honor of her father, Donald Jacobs, who served as a US Navy Signalman in WWII.
At 7:28, the president and First Lady walked to the Pacific Tower, where they stood side by side viewing the memorial.
We were brought to the motorcade 7:32 am and we have a 7:34 arrival at the White House.
Will tweet photos. @kannoyoungs
Until 2 pm, per White House.
Photos coming.
Passing along from the WH:
President Biden's secure video call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia started at 10:07 AM.
Passing along from the White House. (FYI I have asked if the Putin call is still going on and have not yet received an answer from the White House).
White House: This afternoon, President Biden will convene a call with President Macron of France, Chancellor Merkel of Germany, Prime Minister Draghi of Italy, and Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom following his call with President Putin. On their call yesterday, the leaders agreed to stay in close touch on a coordinated and comprehensive approach in response to Russia's military build-up on Ukraine's borders.
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will join Press Secretary Jen Psaki at the daily press briefing today at 2pm to update further.
Passing along from the White House:
President Biden's secure video call with President Vladimir Putin of Russia ended at 12:08 PM.
The press briefing will begin at 2:30pm, according to the WH.
White House now says it will begin at 3 PM.
2 min warning until the briefing, per White House.
Briefing started at 3:02 PM and ended at 4:05 PM.
White House calls a LID at 4:12 PM.
Thanks for working with me and hope you all have a wonderful evening.