Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
Vice President Kamala Harris is headed to Charlotte, N.C., to tout the Biden administration’s bipartisan infrastructure law.
The VP will be joined by Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, whom NPR’s Scott Detrow spotted waiting in the passenger terminal lounge this morning, and Rep. Alma Adams.
Detrow and then the pool also saw Buttigieg from the back boarding AF2 at about 8:40 a.m.
On Thursday in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Vice President will discuss how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will benefit North Carolinians. This visit is a part of her continued efforts to advocate for the Administration’s policies that invest in our nation’s infrastructure, take climate action, and advance environmental justice. She will be joined by Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg and Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-NC-12).
While in Charlotte, the Vice President will receive a tour of the public transit facility at the Charlotte Area Transit System’s Bus Garage, meet with transit workers, and deliver remarks about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will 
 North Carolina’s infrastructure.
The trip builds on the Vice President’s work with President Biden and the Cabinet to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law through dozens of public events nationwide. This visit follows the Vice President’s trip to Columbus, OH on Nov. 19 with Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh. The Vice President toured the Plumbers & Pipefitters Local Union #189, met with workers, and delivered remarks about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will impact Ohioans.
Vice President Kamala Harris’ Marine 2 touched down at JBA about 9:17 a.m.
- Maj Guy Evertson, Alternate Director Flight Line Protocol, C[1]32A Pilot
- Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
- Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-
)
Harris and Buttigieg lingered a bit at the stairs to AF2, chit chatting with Rep. Adams. Harris and Buttigieg hugged at their greeting. We’re about to roll at 9:27 a.m.
AF2 touched down at 10:32 a.m.
Secretary Buttigieg and Rep. Adams came to the back of the plane and held what Symone Sanders billed as a "brief, but impactful" gaggle.
Buttigieg was asked about speculation over President Biden not running for re-election and general chatter about he and Harris mounting presidential campaigns of their own in 2024.
"It's 2021," Buttigieg said. "And the whole point of campaigns and elections is when they go well you get to govern. And we are squarely focused on the job at hand. I am excited to be part of a team led by the President and the Vice President and I think the teamwork that got us to this point is really just beginning."
Asked a follow up on the "teamwork" remark, and whether today's event represents a united front with VP Harris, Buttigieg stressed that he's proud to be part of the team.
"As transportation secretary, I get to be the face of a lot of these investments that we're doing, but we would not be here without the leadership of the Vice President as well as the President; of course, and so many others. So I am glad we're able to shine a light on that today."
- Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
- Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-
)
- Governor Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina (D-NC)
- Mayor Vi Lyles, Mayor of Charlotte (D-NC)
They spoke for a few minutes. Rolling to the first stop.
Harris, Buttigieg and others including the governor began a quick tour of a Charlotte bus depot about 11:20 a.m.
The facility is near South End, and two busses were parked in a garage with space in between for officials to gather. Harris asked a transit official what they could tell her about an all-electric bus.
"So how does it feel to drive it," she probed a driver, nodding as the woman spoke. "Oh, that's very user-friendly," Harris responded when the woman ticked off some features. Harris clasped her hands and then mimicked driving. "You just tap it," she repeated the bus driver about using the breaks. "Whereas before you really had to push it," Harris added, again summing up what the woman said.
Harris spoke to a man who jumped into the bus and started it. Pool could hear a click. "So that's it getting revved up?" Harris asked. She kept peppering another operator with questions as Buttigieg looked on silently.
Harris asked to go inside. "It has that 'new bus' smell," Harris marveled. The group laughed.
Harris then climbed into the driver's seat and pretend to drive the electric bus, honking the horn. "The wheels on the bus go 'round and 'round," she said, letting out a big laugh.
The tour continues to a hybrid light-rail car.
- VPOTUS
- Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
- Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-
)
- Governor Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina (D-NC)
- Mayor Vi Lyles, Mayor of Charlotte (D-NC)
- John Lewis, CEO of CATS (tour guide)
- Scott Kincaid, Fleet Manager at Charlotte Douglas International Airport
- Lille Duncan, Shuttle Operator at Charlotte Douglas International Airport
- Chanda Wright, Streetcar Former Operator & Operations Training Supervisor
- Gary Lee, Railcar Maintenance Manager
The bus depot tour ended about 11:38 a.m.
A small stage is set outside in a parking area where Harris and several of the others are set to give remarks (see earlier report for details).
The event is being live-streamed so I won’t send quotes, but will ship any color. Charlotte’s mayor began speaking about 11:43 a.m.
Pool is holding at the event space where the VP spoke.
Supporters and other assembled elected officials and guests have gone into a nearby building. Will share more details of vpotus and Buttigieg activities when they are clear.
Pool is loaded into the vans and now driving back to the airport in Charlotte.
Harris gaggled with the pool outside AF2 and took two questions.
Asked about Symone Sanders' coming departure, Harris said "I love Symone," and talked about their work together.
"I can't wait to see what she will do next. I know that it's been three years jumping on and off planes going around the country … and I mean that sincerely."
Harris declined to answer a follow up about whether she's in the midst of a staff standup or if she views this as a reset for the VP's office.
She also critiqued Republicans by saying vaccine mandates shouldn't be partisan.
Harris boarded AF2 about 2:05 p.m.
Some fuller quotes to come.
Buttigieg is returning to Washington on AF2 and Rep. Adams is remaining in Charlotte.
On the plane, VP Harris aides huddled behind a drawn curtain, where Harris sang happy birthday to Juan Ortega, a top advance staffer. This is one of her things, singing happy birthday, both in person and over the phone.
They ate cupcakes, which were shared with the pool after the private AF2 celebration.
Harris stepped off the plane around 3:25 p.m.
Thanks, all,