At the Carbis Bay Summit in June 2021, we, the Leaders of the Group of Seven, committed to an ambitious agenda to 
 in developing countries, by 
 quality and sustainable infrastructure that ensures a strong recovery from the pandemic and rapid progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals and international climate and environment commitments, including those recently made at COP26.
Low and middle income countries need to expand infrastructure investment to address climate change and support their transition to 
[1], and for 
 infrastructure; 
 connectivity; 
 infrastructure; and advancing 
 and the fight against inequality. To help overcome this global challenge, we will scale up our collective action to 
, using every tool in our respective development and economic toolboxes, and 
 with developing countries.
 by better leveraging our economies, capital markets, expertise, technology and innovation capabilities.
Through a wide range of programmes and initiatives, as illustrated in the annex to this statement, we are 
 in developing countries, and will build on this to deliver on our ambition. Collectively we have invested substantial resources—in 2019 and 2020 combined, the G7 members provided over US$265 billion in official development assistance[2], including for infrastructure. G7 members also provide substantial amounts of additional finance for infrastructure in developing countries through Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) and their development finance institutions.
But narrowing the connectivity and infrastructure investment gap requires a significant shift in how the international system works together. This is a 
, where we will adopt a common strategic approach, underpinned by the following five principles:
We are firmly committed to this agenda and to working with partners to take it forward. To deliver against these principles and the ambition we have set ourselves, we will initially take the steps below:
These commitments are the first steps in a long-term partnership, and we welcome and invite others to join and work with us, to better coordinate globally in order to narrow the infrastructure financing gap, improve the quality, sustainability and resilience of infrastructure, address climate change, protect biodiversity, and drive the transition to net zero. We welcome the work of the G7 taskforce on development finance, which has informed these principles, and the forthcoming discussion of these issues by G7 Foreign and Development Ministers. We look forward to reflecting on the progress of this initiative under the German Presidency.