Yesterday, President Biden marked World AIDS Day by announcing a new National HIV/AIDS Strategy to put us on a path to ending the HIV epidemic in the United States by 2030. Developed by the reestablished White House Office of National AIDS Policy, the strategy provides the framework and direction for the Administration's policies, research, programs, and planning through 2025. It places a particular emphasis on addressing racial and gender disparities in our health system, to ensure that our HIV/AIDS response is truly equitable.
Speaking at a commemoration in the White House East Room, President Biden paid tribute to the scientists and advocates who have turned the tide on the epidemic and urged continued bipartisan action to fight HIV/AIDS. He also lauded the United States' decades-long global leadership on HIV/AIDS, and underscored the U.S. commitment to hosting the Global Fund's Seventh Replenishment Conference.
[Aamer Madhani, 12/2/21]
"President Joe Biden on Wednesday unveiled his new HIV/AIDS strategy to end the more than 40-year-old epidemic, calling for a renewed focus on vulnerable Americans — including gay and bisexual Black and Latino men, who his administration says are too often stigmatized even as they are disproportionately affected.
The new strategy, which declares racism a 'public health threat,' was released on the annual commemoration of World AIDS Day. It is meant to serve as a framework for how the administration shapes its policies, research, programs and planning over the next three years."
[Eugene Scott, 12/1/21]
"President Biden marked World AIDS Day on Wednesday by renewing support for the worldwide goal of ending the AIDS epidemic by the end of the decade and launching steps to decrease the spread of the disease.
'We can do this,' Biden said at a White House ceremony. 'We can eliminate HIV transmission. We can get the epidemic under control here in the United States, in countries around the world. We have the scientific understanding, we have treatments, and we have the tools we need.' …
Biden said his administration has taken specific steps to address the ongoing AIDS crisis in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. He has reestablished the White House Office of National AIDS Policy, which will be at the forefront of developing a strategy to end the AIDS epidemic."
[Maureen Groppe, 12/1/21]
"President Joe Biden unveiled on Wednesday a strategy for combating HIV/AIDS that the administration says will focus on the growing population of people with HIV who are aging, along with other changes. More than half of the 1.2 million people in the USA who are living with HIV are over age 50. The plan will recognize racism as a health threat, expand the focus on addressing issues such as homelessness that make it hard to fight HIV/AIDS and encourage reform of state HIV criminalization laws."
[Allie Malloy, Paul LeBlanc, Donald Judd and Maegan Vazquez, 12/1/21]
"President Joe Biden marked World AIDS Day on Wednesday by unveiling a new national HIV/AIDS strategy with the goal of ending the HIV epidemic by 2030.
During a speech at the White House on Wednesday afternoon, the President said the new strategy 'centers around the kind of innovative community-driven solutions that we know will work.'
'It's a plan to make sure that the latest advances in HIV prevention, diagnosis and treatment are available to everyone regardless of race, age, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability or other factors. It shouldn't matter where you live in the country or how much you make,' the President said.
He also noted that the strategy 'takes on racial and gender disparities in our health system that for much too long affected HIV outcomes in our country, to ensure that our national responses are truly equitable.'
Biden told advocates and allies at the White House event that because of their efforts, 'We are within striking distance of eliminating HIV transmission.'"
[Jarrett Renshaw, 12/1/21]
"U.S. President Joe Biden on Wednesday will unveil an updated national strategy to combat the AIDS epidemic by boosting money for research, increasing access to treatment, and recognizing the role racism plays in inequitable access to medical services.
The third update to the national AIDS strategy since 2010 sets a lofty target of ending the U.S. HIV epidemic by 2030, including a 75% reduction in new HIV infections by 2025 and a 90% reduction by 2030…
During the 2020 campaign, Biden promised to update the national strategy, which was started in 2010 by President Barack Obama.
'President Biden is honoring that commitment by releasing the new national HIV/AIDS strategy on World AIDS Day and providing a framework and a direction for the administration's policies, research, programs and planning,' a senior administration official said."
[Yacob Reyes, 12/1/21]
"Why it matters: The updated strategy on HIV and AIDS, announced on World AIDS Day, comes 40 years since the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention officially reported the first cases of the virus.
The strategy aims to reduce HIV-related disparities and implement bold targets for ending the epidemic, including a 75% reduction in new infections by 2025. It further implements goals to strengthen enforcement of civil rights laws, promote reform of state HIV criminalization laws and curb misinformation surrounding the virus.
The strategy aims to reduce HIV-related disparities and implement bold targets for ending the epidemic, including a 75% reduction in new infections by 2025.
It further implements goals to strengthen enforcement of civil rights laws, promote reform of state HIV criminalization laws and curb misinformation surrounding the virus.
Between the lines: The strategy underscores the significant HIV-related disparities among marginalized populations, specifically the LGBTQ+ community and communities of color."
[Ayumi Davis, 12/1/21]
"President Joe Biden said the U.S. needs to confront the inequity in medicine to help end the HIV/AIDS epidemic when he announced his new strategy to combat them during the commemoration of World AIDS Day on Wednesday.
Biden called for a focus on vulnerable Americans, especially gay and bisexual Black and Latino people, who are regularly stigmatized even though they are disproportionately affected, Biden's administration said.
'I want to make sure that everyone in the United States knows their HIV status, and everyone with HIV receives high-quality care and treatment that they deserve and that we end the harmful stigma around HIV and AIDS,' Biden said."
[Alex Gangitano, 12/1/21]
"President Biden marked World AIDS Day on Wednesday by announcing new actions to end the HIV epidemic in the United States, focused on prevention, equity, and eliminating stigmas.
'I want to make sure that everyone in the United States knows their HIV status, that everyone with HIV receives high-quality care and treatment that they deserve, and that we end the harmful sigma around HIV and AIDS,' Biden said at an event at the White House.
'It shouldn't matter where you live in the country or how much money you make. We have to respond across the board to the HIV epidemic everywhere and support all people living with HIV,' he added. 'And critically, this strategy takes on racial and gender disparities in our health system that for much too long have effected HIV outcomes in our country.'
The Biden administration unveiled an updated strategy on Wednesday, which provides a roadmap for the federal government through 2025 to reduce HIV infections, improve treatment, lessen health care inequities and combat discrimination and stigmas."