This week, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and members of the Biden-Harris Cabinet fanned out across the country to kick offthe administration's nationwide tour to highlight how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will deliver concrete results for communities and position America to compete and win the 21st century.
From California to Connecticut, the Biden-Harris administration hit the road and spoke directly to the American people about how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will rebuild America's roads, bridges, and rails; expand access to clean drinking water; ensure every American has access to high-speed internet; tackle the climate crisis; advance environmental justice; and drive the creation of good-paying union jobs.
[Hunter Woodall and Brianna Bierschbach, 11/30/21]
Speaking at Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount, Biden said he and others in his administration will travel throughout the country in the coming weeks to talk about how "these investments will change lives." The president said the law "will help rebuild the backbone of this nation," including making high-speed internet available to every Minnesotan. 
Former Democratic New Orleans mayor Mitch Landrieu, recently picked by Biden as senior advisor and infrastructure coordinator, said in a phone interview that Minnesota has "661 bridges and over 4,000 plus miles of highway in poor condition and some of the funding that's coming down to you guys should be coming down sooner rather than later."
[Ricardo Lopez, 11/30/21]
On his first visit to Minnesota since he was elected, President Joe Biden on Tuesday touted the $1.2 trillion infrastructure package he recently signed into law. Biden spoke during a brief stop at Dakota County Technical College in Rosemount. Minnesota will receive more than $6 billion in federal funds, of which $4.5 billion will go toward highways. Minnesota bridges will receive $302 million, public transportation will get $818 million and $100 million is aimed at improving high-speed internet in rural areas. 
 
[Will Wright, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris visited Charlotte on Thursday to promote a newly-approved infrastructure spending plan — a key piece of legislation for President Joe Biden's administration and one that will bring billions to North Carolina.… 
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg also spoke during the event, saying the bill will help fund more climate-friendly public transportation systems in Charlotte that can connect communities with limited access to good-paying jobs.
[Steve Harrison, 12/2/21]
Vice President Kamala Harris touted the Biden administration's $1.2 trillion infrastructure law during a stop in Charlotte on Thursday, saying robust transit systems help low-income workers. Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visited the Charlotte Area Transit System light rail maintenance facility on South Boulevard. 
.
[Michal Martz, 12/3/2021]
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg came to Jackson Ward on Friday to herald a plan to reconnect the historically Black neighborhood, but he never made it to the highway that has divided the community for almost 70 years…. Buttigieg and Northam were accompanied by U.S. Sen Tim Kaine, Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney and two members of Virginia's congressional delegation, Reps. Donald McEachin and Abigail Spanberger. Buttigieg and Spanberger hung back from the tour for a block or so to walk alongside McEachin, who represents the area in Congress and was using a cane while recovering from a fractured hip. 
[Henry Graff, 12/3/21]
Pounding the pavement in Richmond, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg went on a walking tour to learn about the city's historic Jackson Ward. 
Secretary Buttigieg heard about efforts to revitalize Jackson Ward, established 150 years ago as a center for Black commerce and culture before being disconnected by a turnpike and later, I-95. Federal funds will help reconnect the neighborhood with other parts of the city.
[11/30/21]
LOS ANGELES (CNS) — Amid supply chain disruptions at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh visited the port complex Tuesday to discuss the Biden administration's efforts to mitigate the issues…. 
[12/1/21]
After an on-the-water tour of the docks and the port channels, Walsh said he's impressed with 
 according to L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti….
Walsh said the task force he's part of is currently looking for options to increase manufacturing and will likely be able to release its findings sometime next year.
[12/2/21]
Granholm said President Joe Biden wants to see American-based manufacturers like Control Module expand. It's all part of a state and federal partnership to address air-quality issues. 
[Jennifer McDermott, 12/2/21]
Granholm visited a new offshore wind manufacturing hub in Providence to talk about the Biden administration's plan to deploy 30 gigawatts of offshore wind energy by 2030 and to promote the investments in the $1 trillion infrastructure deal. 
[Mikayla Newton, 12/3/21]
Congressman David Trone and U.S. Department of Interior Secretary Deb Haaland hosted a roundtable discussion with environmental justice groups focused on how climate change adversely affects underserved communities
[Mike Lewis, 11/30/21]
Bundled against late November's chill, U.S. Interior Secretary Deb Haaland took a boat ride across the restored Conococheague Aqueduct on Monday. She also toured the new headquarters of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park in Williamsport with U.S. Rep. David Trone as part of a swing through Maryland…. The visit came after Congress passed and President Joe Biden signed the $1.2 trillion Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act of 2021.
According to the National Parks Conservation Association, the National Park Service will receive more than $1.7 billion from the package. 
 "The Park Service manages more than 12,600 miles of roads, over 1,440 bridges and 127 transit systems. Nearly 40% of park roads need repair, including Blue Ridge Parkway and roadways within Mojave National Preserve, deteriorating bridges at Great Smoky Mountains and flood-damaged roads at Harpers Ferry."
[James Wessler, 12/3/2021]
HREWSBURY, Pa. — Going green for agriculture and the environment. That was the topic of an event in Shrewsbury, York County. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack joined Senator Bob Casey to talk about how the "Build Back Better" infrastructure bill is investing to help businesses and the environment. They were at Saubel's market, which has a solar panel array that's already providing 20% of its electricity.