Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. I'll be your Veterans Day print pool reporter for the President's visit to Arlington National Cemetery. His first event of the day is closed press. A reminder of his schedule is below.
?The motorcade left the White House at 10:51 a.m.
Pool was already in the vans, watching from a distance as POTUS got into his vehicle.
The motorcade arrived at Arlington National Cemetery shortly before 11 a.m.
Soldiers stood at attention on both sides of the road, holding rifles, as we drove into the cemetery.
Single cannon shots rang out at short intervals.
Per the White House, the President will be greeted by:
Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Kari McDonough, Spouse of Denis McDonough
Major General Allan M. Pepin, Commanding General of Joint Task Force National Capital Region and the United States Military District of Washington
Heather Pepin, Spouse of Major General Allan Pepin
Ms. Karen Durham-Aguilera, Executive Director of the Office of Army National Cemeteries and Army National Military Cemeteries
?POTUS walked to the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, with Veterans Secretary Denis McDonough, at 11:12 a.m.
They were followed by representatives of each of the military services.
A military band played the Star Spangled Banner.
POTUS walked up to the wreath, bowed his head and made the sign of the cross.
Rejoining McDonough and a military escort, Biden saluted and McDonough placed his hand over his heart as a trumpet played taps.
After taps, they bowed their heads in silence for about a minute.
They walked into the Memorial Amphitheater at 11:17 a.m.
His remarks there will be televised.
Several cabinet members were spotted including Austin, Mayorkas, Raimondo, Walsh, Granholm and Blinken.
Aides included Susan Rice, Mike Donilon, Jake Sullivan and Bruce Reed.
From the White House:
The President was accompanied by:
Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Major General Allan M. Pepin, Commanding General of Joint Task Force National Capital Region and the United States Military District of Washington
In attendance for the Presidential Armed Forces Full Honor Wreath-Laying Ceremony are approximately 50 invited guests including Cabinet Secretaries, senior administration officials, members of Congress, military representatives, veterans and their families.
POTUS walked on stage at 11:31.
A VA chaplain offered a prayer.
Flags, hung between the columns that ring the amphitheater, swayed in a slight breeze.
Orange and red leaves on the trees outside the amphitheater provided more color under a partly cloudy sky.
Many of the marble benches in the amphitheater are empty. Most of the guests appear to be sitting on the balcony level.
From the WH:
There are approximately 650 guests in attendance for the President's remarks.
?POTUS spoke for about 15 minutes
His remarks were broadcast but here are some highlights. Please check transcript.
The single greater honor I've been afforded as president is to stand before so many of you…and talk about Veterans Day.
To be a veteran is to survive challenges most Americans will never know.
You are the very spine of America..and all of us owe you.
We've asked so much of you for so long.
Our administration is going to meet the sacred obligations that we owe you. … We're going to keep pushing to be more nimble and responsive.
If you're struggling, reach out. Call a veterans' crisis line.
Veterans are the soul of America.
Biden also mentioned his late son as well as veterans Colin Powell and Max Clelland, who recently died.
He talked about the anniversary of the burial of the unknown soldier
"Today, 100 years later, we keep a sacred watch over their graves."
A military choir sang "God Bless America," after Biden's remarks.
?The motorcade left the amphitheater area of the cemetery at 12:33 p.m. as cannons began firing.
Pool did not see POTUS enter his vehicle.
People visiting the cemetery stood alongside the internal road, some filming the motorcade with their phones.
?The motorcade returned to the White House complex at 12:42 p.m.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the building.
We have a travel/photo lid