 the Acting Secretary of the Interior, under authority of and in compliance with section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), as amended by the act of June 20, 1936 (49 Stat. 1555), the administration of which act was transferred to the Secretary of the Interior on July 1, 1939, by Reorganization Plan No. II (53 Stat. 1431), has adopted and submitted to me the following amendments, which he has determined to be suitable amendments of certain of the regulations approved by Proclamation fro. 2345 of August 11, 1939, as last amended by Proclamation No. 2562 of July 14, 1942, permitting and governing the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof, included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals concluded February 7, 1936:
AMENDMENTS OF MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
Under authority and direction of section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), as amended by the act of June 20, 1936 (49 Stat. 1555), the administration of which act was transferred to the Secretary of the Interior on July 1, 1939, by Reorganization Plan No. II (53 Stat. 1431), I, Oscar L. Chapman, Acting Secretary of the Interior, having due regard to the zones of temperature and to the distribution, abundance, economic value, breeding habits, and times and lines of migratory flight of migratory birds included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds, concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals, concluded February 7, 1936, have determined when, to what extent, and by what means it is compatible with the terms of said conventions and act to allow the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, and, in accordance with such determinations, do hereby amend, as specified, the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2345 of August 11, 1939, as last amended by Proclamation No. 2562 of July 14, 1942, and as so amended do hereby adopt such regulations as suitable regulations permitting and governing the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof:
Regulation 4, "Open Seasons on and Possession of Certain Migratory Game Birds," is amended to read as follows:
Waterfowl (except snow geese in Beaverhead, Gallatin, and Madison Counties in Montana, in Idaho, and in States bordering on the Atlantic Ocean; Ross' geese, and swans), coots, rails and gallinules, woodcocks, mourning or turtle doves, white-winged doves, and bandtailed pigeons may be taken each day from one-half hour before sunrise to sunset, except in Alexander county, Illinois, geese may be taken only from sunrise to 12:00 o'clock noon, and in Texas white-winged doves may be taken only from noon to sunset, during the open seasons prescribed therefor in this regulation, and they may be taken by the means and in the numbers permitted by regulations 3 and 5 of these regulations, respectively, and when so taken may be possessed in the numbers permitted by regulation 5 any day in any State, Alaska, Puerto Rico, or in the District of Columbia during the period constituting the open season where taken and for an additional period of 45 days next succeeding said open season, but no such bird shall be possessed in any State, Alaska, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia at a time when such State, Alaska, Puerto Rico, or District prohibits the possession thereof. Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit the taking of migratory birds on any reservation or sanctuary established under the Migratory Bird Conservation Act of February 18, 1929 (45 Stat. 1222), nor on any area of the United States set aside under any other law, proclamation, or Executive order for use as a bird, game, or other wildlife reservation, breeding ground, or refuge except insofar as may be permitted by the Secretary of the Interior under existing law, nor on any area adjacent to any such refuge when such area is designated as a closed area under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.
Waterfowl and coot.—The open seasons on waterfowl (except geese in Alexander County, Illinois, snow geese in Beaverhead, Gallatin, and Madison Counties in Montana, in Idaho, and in States bordering on the Atlantic Ocean; Ross' geese, and swans), and coot, in the several States, Alaska, and Puerto Rico, shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
In Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Wyoming, September 25 to December 3.
In California (except on the Colorado River and within ten miles of its western bank), Colorado, Connecticut, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey, New York (except certain hereinafter designated portions of Essex, Clinton, and Washington Counties) including Long Island, Oklahoma, Oregon, Rhode Island, Utah, Washington, and West Virginia, October 15 to December 23.
On the Colorado River in California and within ten miles of its western bank, November 2 to January 10.
In those portions of Essex and Clinton Counties, New York, east of the Delaware and Hudson Railroad tracks and that part of Washington County east of the aforesaid tracks to and including the town of South Bay and all of the waters of South Bay and one mile distant from such waters in any direction, September 25 to December 3.
In Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia, November 2 to January 10.
In Puerto Rico, December 15, to February 12.
In Fur Districts 1 and 3 in Alaska, as defined in the regulations governing the taking of game in Alaska adopted July 13, 1943 (8 F.R. 9841), September 21 to November 29; and in the remainder of Alaska, September 1 to November 9; Provided, That scoters, locally known as sea coots, may be taken in open coastal waters only, beyond outer harbor lines, in Maine and New Hampshire from September 15 to September 30; and in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York including Long Island, and Rhode Island, from September 15 to October 15, and thereafter from land or water during the open seasons for other waterfowl in these States.
Geese, in Alexander County, Illinois, October 15 to December 13.
Rails and gallinules (except coot).— The open season on rails and gallinules (except coot) shall be from September 1 to November 30, both dates inclusive, except as follows;
Alabama, November 20 to January 31.
Louisiana, September 15 to December 15.
Maine, and Wisconsin, September 25 to December 3.
Maryland, September 1 to October 31.
Massachusetts, and New York, including Long Island, October 15 to December 23.
Minnesota, September 16 to November 30.
Puerto Rico, December 15 to February 12.
California, District of Columbia, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Tennessee, and Washington, no open season.
Woodcock.—The open seasons on woodcock shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
That part of New York lying north of the tracks of the main line of the New York Central Railroad extending from Buffalo to Albany and north of the tracks of the main line of the Boston & Albany Railroad extending from Albany to the Massachusetts State line, and in Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin, October 1 to October 15.
That part of New. York lying south of the line above described and in Indiana and West Virginia, October 15 to October 29.
That part of New York known as Long Island, and in New Jersey, and Rhode Island, November 1 to November 15.
Arkansas, and Oklahoma, December 1 to December 15.
Connecticut, October 16 to October 30.
Delaware, and Maryland, November 15 to November 29.
Louisiana, and Mississippi, December 15 to December 29.
Maine, New Hampshire, Ohio, and Vermont, October 10 to October 24.
Massachusetts, October 20 to November 3.
Michigan, in Upper Peninsula, October 1 to October 15; in remainder of State, October 15 to October 29.
Minnesota. October 3 to October 17.
Missouri, November 10 to November 24.
Virginia. November 20 to December 4.
Mourning or turtle dove.—The open seasons on mourning or turtle dove shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina, November 20 to December 19.
Arizona, California, Colorado, Kansas, Nevada, New Mexico, and Oklahoma, September 1 to October 12.
Arkansas, Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland, Tennessee, and Virginia, September 16 to October 15.
Florida, December 1 to December 30.
Idaho, September 1 to September 10.
Illinois, and Missouri, September 1 to September 30.
Minnesota, September 16 to September 30
North Carolina, November 25 to December 24.
Oregon, September 1 to September 15.
Texas, in Kinney, Uvalde, Medina, Bexar, Comal, Hays, Travis, Williamson, Bell, Falls, McLennan, Hill, Navarro, Kaufman, Hunt, Hopkins, Delta, and Lamar Counties, and all counties north and west thereof, September 1 to October 12 in remainder of State, November 20 to December 19.
White-winged dove.—The open seasons on white-winged dove shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Arizona, September 1 to September 15.
Texas, September 13 to September 19.
Band-tailed pigeon.—The open seasons on band-tailed pigeon shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Arizona, New Mexico, and Washington, September 16 to October 15.
California, December 1 to December 30.
Oregon, September 1 to September 30.
The subtitles "Sora," "Coot" and "Mourning or turtle dove and whitewinged dove" of Regulation 5 are amended to read as follows:
Sora and Coot.—Twenty-five in the aggregate of both kinds, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 25 in the aggregate of both kinds.
Mourning or turtle dove and whitewinged dove.—Ten in the aggregate of both kinds, and any person at any one time may possess not more than 10 mourning doves or more than 20 whitewinged doves.
Regulation 6 is amended by striking out the numerals "30" wherever they occur in the said regulation and by inserting in lieu thereof the numerals "45", and the second paragraph of the said regulation is amended to read as follows:
Not more than the number of such birds permitted by regulation 5 of these regulations to be taken by one person in one day, or in 2 days in the case of white-winged doves, woodcock and ducks (except wood ducks), nor more than 6 geese, including brant, in the aggregate of all kinds of which not more than 4 in any combination may be species other than blue geese, shall be transported by any one person in 1 calendar week out of Alaska, Puerto Rico, or the State where taken or from Canada or Mexico into the United States.
, I have hereunto subscribed my name and caused the seal of the Department of the Interior to be affixed, this fifteenth day of July, 1943.
Oscar L. Chapman,
 upon consideration it appears that the foregoing amendments will effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act:
, President of the United States of America, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendments.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 16th day of July, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-eighth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL