Pool Reports by 
, 
Senior administration officials held a 17-minute background briefing Friday morning on the condition of anonymity. They previewed VP Harris' remarks and press conference scheduled for later today as well as the Paris Conference on Libya that she will attend afterward (an event featuring about 20 heads of state that is closed to the press). They responded to two questions. Here are some highlights.
-- In her remarks summarizing the Paris trip later today, Harris will speak about global health, space, cyber security and inequality – "will talk about why these issues matter to the United States and why they matter to the world."
--Writing rules for 21st century and the importance of US-French alliance – trans-Atlantic, Sahel and Indo-Pacific.
--"Warm relationships and wide-ranging discussions" with Macron demonstrate the close relationship between the countries.
--Paris conference on Libya. Elections December 24. "The United States wants to see a stable and prosperous Libya."
--"The main question in everybody's mind is proceeding with these elections going to be more destabilizing or less destabilizing for Libya."
"Our view is without these elections you're not going to have a functioning government in Libya next year."
--What signs of destabilizing will you look for ahead of elections and what will you do if things deteriorate? It's up to the Libyans and we are trying to help them meet the timeline that was established with help from a UN facilitated process. "There will be those who are already trying to take it to the streets." But some of the petitions being signed are fabricated and we still believe the overwhelming majority want the elections. "Spoilers" stoking violence can be penalized by UN.
--What role does VP have? The same as other heads of states or secondary role? What is ideal outcome? What will the US do to help with elections? "It's no secret to any of us that Libya has been a controversial issue for the United States." Europe, especially Italians and French, have direct interest and will play a leading role. The Germans started the Berlin Process. "Everyone of these actors considers the US role and voice to be important and even critical" because we are seen as disinterested and not seeking land or oil. The interested parties all want the US on their side, so the US plays a "shepherding role."
An ideal outcome is a strong unified message on elections and foreign mercenaries.
USAID programing in support of governance and democracy is "quite robust" and offering technical and financial support. Others like Carter Center have also expressed interest in sending observers. "We're playing a fairly active role in supporting the mechanics of this election."
Pool has been wanded and set up in a room inside the hotel for today's statement and questions from VP Harris. There is a lectern at the front with the vice-presidential seal on it and two American flags and two French flags behind it. The room has white walls with red velvet curtains and flat plaid carpet. Chairs are set up like a wedding, with French reporters on one side and Americans on the other. The conference is scheduled to start at 1:30 p.m. local time and will be livestreamed.
Here is the link:
[
]
It ended at about 2:40 and lasted about 39 minutes. VP Harris spoke for 19 and a half minutes and took questions from seven reporters.
She will next go to the Libya conference, which is closed press except the entrance, which is limited pool.
Because of pool size restrictions, this report comes courtesy of Sarah Kolinovsky of ABC News:
After a dead sprint out of the motorcade, the pool ran into the courtyard of the Maison de la Chimie at 3:01pm local, just ahead of Harris's SUV. She exited the door facing away from the building entrance and had to loop around the vehicle to greet President Macron. They were enthusiastic as usual, grasping one another's hands and smiling widely. We were a bit too far away for a shouted question. They paused for a moment at the door to wave at the press assembled and walked in — the entire spray lasting only about a minute.
VP Harris arrived at the hotel at 5:15. Pool was not in motorcade and did not see her. She has no more public events today.
A Harris advisor sends along that the VP is attending a Cabinet meeting virtually from Paris.
Background from Harris' office:
The Vice President spoke with President Macron on the phone shortly before she joined the Cabinet meeting tonight.
This afternoon, Vice President Harris attended the Paris Conference on Libya hosted by President Macron. During the program, the Vice President emphasized that the United States stands with the people of Libya as they write this new chapter in their history. She believes that in moving forward with elections and ceasefire commitments, the people of Libya have made it clear: They are ready to move beyond military conflict and the politics of division, and toward an elected and unified government that delivers for and is accountable to all Libyans.
From VP's office: Tonight the VP and the Second Gentleman went to dinner at Chez I'Ami Louis.
The VP and Second Gentleman returned at 11:15 p.m.