Today in the news, corporate executives expressed confidence in their inventories in the face of supply chain bottlenecks and increased demand as we head into the holiday season. Pre-Black Friday sales have already kicked off at some retailers. Meanwhile, Home Depot shares hit record highs after the company reported strong earnings, and other major retailers are achieving similar results.
 The 
 reports, "On a call with reporters, Target Chief Executive Brian Cornell said, 'We've seen strength throughout the year.' Sales rose strongly in each of the five main categories the retailer sells, he said. 'We've made a big investment in both inventory and in staffing to make sure we are going to be there to provide the items the guest is looking for and great service.'"
 reports, "Target also released information about being in-stock for the holidays by working proactively to move products quickly from overseas to the U.S. market. 
 and it feels confident it will have a successful holiday season."
 On a recent earnings call, Lowe's reported, "At the end of the quarter, inventory was $16.7 billion dollars, which is 
than the third quarter of 2020." 
 adds, "Lowe's shares rose 4% Tuesday and 
 According to the 
, Sysco CEO Kevin Hourican said on a recent earning call, 
 The 
 is reporting, "TJX, owner of off-price chains TJ Maxx, Marshalls and HomeGoods, said comparable sales for open stores increased 14% from fiscal 2020, while 
 from the previous year, to $12.5 billion." In addition, "TJX said its inventory as of Oct. 30 was at $6.6 billion, up from $6.3 billion in fiscal 2020." 
 included a statement from CEO Ernie Herrman saying, 
 The 
 notes, "Home Depot Inc. achieved better-than-expected results for the latest quarter, a sign that the home-improvement retailer could be avoiding the worst effects of the supply-chain snarls reverberating across the economy." The article continues,
and adds, "Its results are also evidence of how some retailers have found ways to continue improving profits despite rising input prices and logistics challenges." 
 highlights that 
 In 
, Ulta COO Kecia Steelman says, "'Our team is working diligently to mitigate risk by collaborating with our brand partners to prioritize inventory for the holiday season. 
 Steelman additionally noted that
 In 
, Best Buy CEO Corie Barry stated, 
A spokesperson for Best Buy added 
 as it works with vendor partners year-round on securing products to offer to its customers." And, 
 According to the 
, "Walmart said its inventory position is strong heading into the holidays."