Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon. Pool is gathering to head to EEOB ahead of Vice President Harris' bilateral meeting with Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.
There will be a pool spray at the top of the meeting, and we'll be back in the room later for VP's bilat with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
Pool did not get a glimpse of AMLO or Trudeau before walking over to EEOB. More to follow…
Pool is holding on the landing 1 floor above VP's ceremonial office. The bilateral with President Lopez Obrador was scheduled to begin at 1:30pm ET.
… at 1:35pm. VP sat with at the end of her office table with AMLO seated to her left. (Picture to follow)
Will send remarks highlights, Otter audio link, and full transcript in additional reports.
Harris opened by thanking AMLO for joining her at the WH, an extension of their initial conversation in Mexico City this summer. She said that they would talk about all issues the countries face together.
She additionally thanked the Mexican delegation for welcoming Ken Salazar as US ambassador.
Through a translator, AMLO thanked VP for her "kind, warm welcome"
He also complimented Salazar
"History is the teacher of life…"
AMLO launched into a story about former President Theodore Roosevelt and his relationship with Mexican President Lazaro Cardenas
Please check with foreign pool for a more detailed rundown of AMLO's remarks… pool's translation device lost feed halfway through
… as of 2:07pm
AMLO also thanked President Biden and VP for seeking to address the "migrant conversation, adding the "we will continue to watch over this process"
The scene:
Pool was ushered out at 2:08pm, without getting answers to shouted questions
Unclear if pool will have time to fully transcribe before Trudeau meeting starts, but you can listen to VP's opening remarks in full here:
Passing US participants, per VP's office. Will send along full MEX delegation as soon as pool receives:
VPOTUS
Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Michael Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Phil Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
Hillary Quam, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Western Hemisphere
Passing along from VP's office:
VPOTUS
Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Michael Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Phil Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
Hillary Quam, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Western Hemisphere
Mexico side
H.E. Andres Manuel LOPEZ OBRADOR, President of the United Mexican States
See VP's full opening remarks below. Please check with foreign pool for AMLO's full remarks.
It is my great honor again to welcome you to Washington, DC. I want to thank you again for your very warm welcome when we met in Mexico City five short months ago.
This meeting is a continuation. This meeting is a continuation of an ongoing converstation that you and I have had, fueled by friendship, fueled by partnership, fueled by a longstanding relationship between Mexico and the United States, and in recognition of all the work that we will do currently and that we pledge to do together in the future.
Together, working on the challenges that we face, and also recognizing the opportunities that exist when we work together as countries in North America and with partners in the Western Hemisphere, and the conversations that we have had on a range of subjects, I have enjoyed all of the conversations that you and I have, like history and critical figures in history both in Mexico and the United States who have worked together.
But our conversation also extends to economic prosperity. mutual concern about migration and what we will do in partnership to address the particular root causes of migration and also what we do on the issue of technology and the exploration of space. All of these issues have been the subject of our discussion previously and ongoing. So again, I welcome you, I thank you for traveling to be with us. I know the president is looking forward to speaking with you.
I also want to thank you for the warm reception that you and the people of Mexico have given to Ken Salazar, our ambassador to Mexico. I have known him, Salazar, Ken Salazar for a very long time, and we are very proud that he is the representative of the United States. And with that again welcome and I look forward to the discussion.
Back at the stakeout as of 2:50pm. Heading back to EEOB momentarily…
Pool is now back holding on the landing 1 floor above VP's ceremonial office in EEOB. VP's office said we'd be here for roughly 10 minutes
One note: Sen. Joe Manchin walked out of the White House while pool was gathering on the driveway. He said he was not meeting with POTUS and was just there to support
Pics:
… at 3:55pm. Same setup as AMLO meeting
Highlights, audio link, and full transcript to follow.
… ended at 3:59pm
VP opened by noting that the US-Canadian relationship is special, "to me in particular," ash she spent time there as a child
"The work that we do together is vitally important…"
Trudeau thanked VP and called meeting her in person a "real pleasure"
He called today an "opportunity" to "deepen the close ties" between Canada and US
Trudeau dropped a "Build Back Better" line before translating his opening remarks into French.
Pool shouted several questions about trade exemptions, Line 5, and more but did not receive answers before being ushered out of the room.
You can listen to audio of remarks here:
Passing along from VP's office...
US
Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Phil Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
David Cohen, U.S. Ambassador to Canada
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
Hillary Quam, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Western Hemisphere
The Rt. Hon. Justin Trudeau, P.C., M.P., Prime Minister of Canada
T.H. Chrystia Freeland, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
T.H. Mélanie Joly, Minister of Foreign Affairs
T.H. Mary Ng, Minister of International Trade, Export Promotion, Small Business and Economic Development
H.E. Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of Canada to the United States
Ms. Katie Telford, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
Mr. Brian Clow, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
The scene:
And fuller quotes from Harris and Trudeau below… that's all from me, folks. Have a great evening!
Mr. Prime Minister, welcome, and welcome to the delegation. It is very good to see you all. We've had many conversations over the telephone [inaudible] but it's a great honor [INAUDIBLE].
As you know, we have this relationship between the United States and Canada, it's a very personal one, to us as Americans and to me as an individual. As you know, I spent time in Canada [INAUDIBLE] but what I know is that the relationship between us is a long and enduring one, based on many principles and ideals that we share, and our relationship is as family, and in the context of being fellow members of North America [inaudible] and as being partners to many of our allies [INAUDIBLE]. And so I welcome you [INAUDIBLE]
Thank you so much, Madame Vice President, and it is [INAUDIBLE] to sit down with you for the first time in person, we've had phone calls and [INAUDIBLE]
This is an opportunity for us to continue to deepen our friendship, our relationship [INAUDIBLE] not just our ties that are value-based [INAUDIBLE] perspective that we have on, not just the economy but [INAUDIBLE] diversity and empowering marginalized people. These are the kinds of things we need to do to Build Back Better [INAUDIBLE]
[TRUDEAU SPEAKS IN FRENCH]
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon,
I will be your foreign pooler for the bilateral meeting between VPOTUS Kamala Harris and Mexico's President Andrés Manuel López Obrador. Pool is gathered one floor up from the Vice President's Ceremonial Office at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building (EEOB), where the meeting will take place. About two dozen journalists from the US and Mexican pool await the arrival of President Lopez Obrador and VP Harris, The meeting is scheduled for 1:30PM.
President Lopez Obrador hosted the VP Harris in Mexico City last June. Later, in July, both held a virtual meeting. President Joe Biden named back in March Vice President Harris to lead his administration's efforts, along with Mexico and Central America's Northern Triangle countries, to try to stem the flow of immigration to the US.
Pool is holding now outside the Vice President's Ceremonial Office. The bilateral meeting between the VP Harris and President Lopez Obrador is running late. It was scheduled for 1:30PM.
Please find below the US delegation that will take part in the Harris-AMLO bilat, per VP Office. We are still waiting for the Mexican delegation names. Your pooler will share it with you as soon as he gets it.
VPOTUS
Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Michael Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Phil Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Ken Salazar, U.S. Ambassador to Mexico
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
Hillary Quam, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Western Hemisphere
Pool has not had sight of either VPOTUS or President Lopez Obrador yet.
VPOTUS and President Lopez Obrador exchanged pleasantries while sitting at a long oval table where both delegations were present.
VPOTUS said that immigration will be the main topic of discussion.
President López Obrador said in Spanish that the goal is to make immigration "a choice". He also highlighted the importance that North America comes together in its efforts to tackle regional migration and applauded President Biden's initiative to regularize the situation of 11 million undocumented migrants who already live in the US. He encouraged lawmakers to support that proposal.
Pool was escorted out the room at 2:09PM.
Your pooler will send quotes in a following email.
Mexico delegation, per VP Office.
H.E. Andres Manuel LOPEZ OBRADOR, President of the United Mexican States
"This meeting is a continuation of an ongoing conversation that you and I have had fueled by friendship, fueled by partnership, fueled by the longstanding relationship between Mexico and the United States and in recognition of all the work that we will do currently and that we pledge to do together in the future."
"The conversation that we have had range in subject. I have enjoyed always the conversation that you and I have about history and the critical figures in history both in Mexico and the United States who have worked together. But our conversation also extends to economic prosperity for both of our nations, the issue of our mutual concern about migration and what we will do as partners to address, in particular, the root causes of migration, and also what we can do in issues of technology and the exploration of space. All of these issues have been the subject of our discussions previously and will be ongoing."
VPOTUS thanked President López Obrador for the "warmed reception" that US Ambassador to Mexico Ken Salazar -present in the meeting- have been given.
President López Obrador said that he agrees with VP Harris and called Ambassador Salazar "a very good" ambassador. He made a historical comparison with the US Ambassador that was appointed under the Roosevelt administration because it helped "strengthen the relationship between both countries".
The president highlighted "the importance of economic cooperation, investment in Central America". "There is a plan by the US Government to assist Central America, which we very much celebrate. If economic integration in North America gets strengthened, the migration flow will need to be put in order, and there will be labor opportunities to grow in North America and produce in North America what we consume, so that we don't have to depend on imports."
"We applaud that President Biden sent to Contress an initiative to regularize migrants. I hope lawmakers from both parties support it, because it is fair."
VPOTUS and President López Obrador did not take any questions. As always, please check quotes against transcript.