Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
Below is a statement from Press Secretary Jen Psaki.
Later 
, the President will travel to Walter Reed Medical Center for his routine annual physical. We will provide more details after he arrives at Walter Reed.
The pool is holding in vans on the South Lawn ahead of the president's visit to Walter Reed. Pool has not yet seen the president.
On the way to the vans at about 7:45 a.m., pool passed the Rose Garden as workers were raking up fall leaves. It is windy and chilly.
The motorcade is moving as of 8:26 a.m. Pool did not see the president get into his car.
The president's motorcade pulled up to Walter Reed at 8:51 a.m. The press was not allowed to exit our vans to ask questions or take photos.
The president waved at the pool and went into the building.
Pool is holding in the vans.
A rare sight this morning on the way here: an empty highway at rush hour. The pool drove along the highway to get here and it was closed off to traffic.
See below from Jen Psaki.
This morning, the President will travel to Walter Reed Medical Center for a routine physical. While he is there, the President will undergo a routine colonoscopy.
As was the case when President George W. Bush had the same procedure in 2002 and 2007, and following the process set out in the Constitution, President Biden will transfer power to the Vice President for the brief period of time when he is under anesthesia. The Vice President will work from her office in the West Wing during this time.
Later this afternoon, the White House will publicly release a written summary of the President's physical.
White House advises that the daily briefing with Jen Psaki will be at noon.
The White House press office confirms President Biden is using section 3 of the 25th Amendment to temporarily transfer power.
The press briefing will begin at 12:30 p.m., per the White House.
See below letters from President Biden on temporary transfer of power.
Flagging the below tweet from Jen Psaki.
From the White House press office:
The letters to Senator Leahy and the Speaker of the House were transmitted at 10:10 a.m. EST. The president resumed his duties at 11:35 a.m. EST.
Two-minute warning to briefing at 12:37 p.m.
FYI: The pool is still waiting in the vans outside Walter Reed and is not at the White House briefing. Pooler received the two-minute warning for the briefing by email.
The president exited Walter Reed at 2:05 p.m. He pulled down his mask. He said:
"I had a great physical and a great House of Representatives vote," per radio pooler.
POTUS entered Marine 1 at 2:09 p.m. Wheels up at 2:13 p.m.
Pool loading into vans now for ride back to White House.
The pool is in place in the Rose Garden for the Turkey Pardoning. There are roughly 100 people here, including adults and kids. No sign of the turkeys. There are pumpkins and leaves around the president's lectern. Instrumental music is playing.
Update: your pooler saw the turkeys. They are waiting next to the podium.
POTUS arrived in the Rose Garden at 3:30 p.m. He walked out of the Oval.
More to come.
Not sure if the mic caught the actual pardoning, so here are some notes for those who want.
President Biden stepped away from the lectern and toward the birds.
"By the powers vested in me as the president of the United States, I pardon you," he said.
At least one of the turkeys gobbled with gratitude.
President Biden then said a few words before walking around the Rose Garden to speak with the visiting children and their parents. He is still talking to families.
Pooler spotted Education Secretary Cardona.
The president left the event and walked into the White House at 4:02 p.m.
For those asking:
Peanut Butter and Jelly are both males. Each weighs 40 lbs. They are brothers.
We have a dinner lid until 6 p.m.
Pool arrived on the South Lawn just before Marine 1 was wheels up at 6:54 p.m.
Pooler didn't see the president enter Marine 1 because pool arrived after he had already boarded the helicopter.
A still photographer showed a few members of the pool a photo of the president boarding the plane once pool arrived back inside White House.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
I'll be your supplemental pooler for POTUS arrival this afternoon. Pool is gathering now.
POTUS arrived back at the White House at 2:21, with the M1 landing blowing all of the fallen leaves into the direction of the press. He stepped off M1 at 2:23pm.
He answered a few questions from the pool, saying he stands by the Rittenhouse verdict but declining to directly answer whether he stands by his equating Rittenhouse to white supremacy. He said he just heard about the verdict.
"I stand by what the jury has to say. The jury system works."
He said he will sign BBB if it doesn't contain paid family leave. He was asked about plans of pardoning humans in addition to turkeys and joked
He said he feels great and joked about turning 58 tomorrow.
Full quotes To come
From the WH:
Traveling with the President on Marine One from Walter Reed:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
On Rittenhouse verdict:
"I just heard a moment ago. I didn't watch the trial, so I, you know…"
On standing by equation to white supremacy:
"I stand by what the jury has concluded. The jury system works and we have to abide by it."
On the state of his health after checkup:
"Good! We're gonna release all the details. I feel great. Nothing's changed. We're in great shape, and so - and I'm looking forward to celebrating my 58th birthday."
On when he expects BBB to land on his desk:
"I don't know. It's gonna take awhile to get through the Senate, I think it'll probably be after Thanksgiving."
On whether he will sign it without paid family leave:
"I will sign it. Period."
On whether he will be pardoning people as well as turkeys:
"You need a pardon?" *laughs, something inaudible about turkeys*
That's all from me, thanks all.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One landed in the parking lot of Brandywine Creek State Park in Wilmington, Del. at 7:53 p.m. under what looked to be a full moon. President Biden briefly waved to the pool, from afar. We are now rolling.
And per the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Wilmington, Delaware:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security Council
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
?President Biden arrived at his Wilmington home at 8:08 p.m. We have a lid.