Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House, where it is a cool-but-pleasant 
 and your pooler has just been tested for COIVD-19.
As befits Noodle's prediction, it's a light public schedule for President Biden, with no events on the docket until his 8 p.m. chopper departure for Wilmington. White House press secretary Jen Psaki is scheduled to brief at 1.30 p.m., which will be streamable 
.
President Biden is now scheduled to depart the White House for Wilmington at 7.30 p.m. tonight.
Lots of schedule changes today! The press briefing will now begin at 2 p.m.
Reminder that the briefing can be viewed 
.
Pause 
 and stream it 
[
]
We have a dinner (or, in your pooler's case, a fifth-cup-of-iced-coffee) lid until 6.30 p.m.
President Biden and Dr. Biden will now depart the White House at 8 p.m.
Good evening from the White House, where reporters are gathering for President Biden's departure from the South Lawn and where, earlier, a vaguely alarming number of starlings also gathered in Hitchcockian fashion on the roof of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. (The sunset was a lovely one, however.)
President Biden is scheduled to depart for Wilmington at 8 p.m.
Marine One took off from the South Lawn at 8.05 p.m. President Biden and Dr. Biden waved to reporters before locking arms on the way to Marine One, but did not stop to answer questions. (Dr. Biden also waved from the window as the helicopter revved up.)
Per a White House official, here is the list of those flying with the president and first lady on Marine One tonight:
· Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
· Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
· Kurt Campbell, NSC Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Handing off to the travel pool.
In the spirit of No Bones Day, remember to be very kind to yourself, sensitive of others, wear your sweatpants, take a bubble bath, and generally practice self-care.
Goodnight!
Correction from a White House official — instead of Kurt Campbell, Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, was traveling with POTUS and FLOTUS.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening,
I'm your out-of-town pooler.
The pool arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base, where it's a chilly 55 degrees, at 8:24 p.m.
We're now awaiting the president and first lady's arrival. They were wheels up from the South Lawn of the White House at 8:05 p.m. and are expected to arrive here around 9 p.m.
Marine One landed at DANG at 8:55 p.m.
The motorcade began rolling at 8:59 p.m.
The motorcade dropped President Biden and first lady Jill Biden off to their residence at 9:12 p.m.
And, with that, the White House has declared a lid.
Enjoy the rest of your evening!