Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, passing this along from the White House:
Today, the President, the Vice President, and the Secretary of the Treasury will hold meetings with two groups of Members of Congress to discuss his legislative agenda.
Members attending the 2:00 PM meeting:
Members attending the 4:30 PM meeting:
Jazmine
Good morning again, here's the latest statement from the WH with a correction to Mike Thompson's title in red:
Today, the President, the Vice President, and the Secretary of the Treasury will hold meetings with two groups of Members of Congress to discuss his legislative agenda.
Members attending the 2:00 PM meeting:
Members attending the 4:30 PM meeting:
Hi yet again, another correx from the WH to the list of members: Mark Pocan is from Wisconsin, not Washington (a fact the Post's Seung Min Kim also quickly flagged, so thank you)!
Your pooler is now on the way to get covid tested and caffeinated.
Call time is at 12:30 p.m.
Jazmine
Passing along a statement from the WH on talks over the Freedom to Vote Act:
"Yesterday, ahead of Wednesday's vote to advance the Freedom to Vote Act, the President spoke by phone with Senators Warnock and Padilla about the must-pass priority of legislation to protect Americans' constitutional rights from the systematic assault that Republicans have been mounting in state legislatures across the country, based on the Big Lie. The Vice President also spoke with Senators King, Klobuchar, and Ossoff. The administration is continuing to press for voting rights legislation to safeguard our democracy from these historic threats to constitutional freedoms and the integrity of elections through legislation, executive actions, outreach, the bully pulpit, and all other means available."
Good afternoon from the WH, where it is a clear and sunny 66 degrees.
President has meetings with legislators at 2 pm and 4:30 pm today to continue negotiating his social spending plan. Senators Kyrsten Sinema and Joe Manchin are reportedly still on the grounds after arriving for a meeting this morning with the president. (Awaiting confirmation on that from WH.)
Below is today's daily guidance.
We’ve got a two minute warning on the briefing!
Tune in to watch.
WH Press Secretary Jen Psaki left the podium just after 1:50 pm.
Haven't received any additional details from WH on the president's meetings with Sinema and Manchin this morning, but during the briefing, Psaki confirmed that he met with both senators this morning.
Two minute warning: Members of Congress are headed to the Stakeout location. The first meeting with POTUS, VP, Treasury Secretary has ended, per WH.
Speaking for the progressive caucus, Representative Pramila Jayapal said members were feeling positive about their negotiations with the president, which she described as thoughtful and conversational listening sessions.
"We are feeling good."
She said progressives winnowed down their demands to five priorities and believed most would get into the bill.
"I think the president has been working incredibly hard to get everybody to a place where we can move this forward and finish this process so that we can start on whatever is the next important thing that we need to do so."
Jayapal said the president has been consistent about his bottom line numbers: $1.9-2.2 trillion
"It's not the number that we want. We have consistently tried to make it as high as possible."
"President has agreed with our strategy."
She said one of the most challenging places for their caucus is emissions reductions.
She had only positive things to say about the president: "He is the closer, he is the convincer," she said. Then, at the suggestion of Representative Jimmy Gomez, she added, "the mediator in chief."
"He really is doing a phenomenal job," she said.
"The president has been nothing but respectful of all that we're trying to accomplish all that he's trying to accomplish in his Build Back Better agenda, and these conversations have been really great. They're really conversational…"
Asked about whether they could meet the accelerated Schumer deadline, she said: "We are all working as hard as we can. I mean all of us are having a million conversations every day to try to get there."
Manchin and Sinema were not the focus of the conversations, Jayapal said.
Passing this along from the WH:
The meeting began at 2:17 PM and ended at 4:11 PM.
Speaking to press at the stakeout location following their meeting with the President, the Vice President, and the Secretary of the Treasury:
On background from The White House:
No White House principal has been determined to be a close contact of Secretary Mayorkas, given that the most recent contact was at the outdoor National Peace Officers’ Memorial Service, which took place outside of the 48-hour close contact window.
Hi all,
The second meeting with members of Congress started at 4:51 pm and ended at 6:13 pm, per WH.
No stakeout.
A travel/photo lid was called at 6:26 pm.
It's been a pleasure!
Hello again, here’s a memo from the WH with policy details ahead of tomorrow’s trip.
Good night!
Jazmine
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 October 19, 2021
 Background on BID and BBB for the President’s Visit to Pennsylvania
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make a generational investment in Pennsylvania’s infrastructure and resilience:
The Build Back Better Plan will make life better for millions of working families in Pennsylvania: