Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on this beautiful October day with clear blue skies.
I'll be your in-town pooler today. No changes to the schedule, copied below:
The pool has gathered to depart for Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial where President Biden and Vice President Harris will deliver remarks.
The pool saw POTUS get in the car at 11:55 AM from inside our van. The motorcade departed for MLK Jr. Memorial at 11:56 AM.
The event will be live streamed 
. Here is a link: 
The motorcade arrived at the MLK Jr. Memorial at 12:01 PM. More to come shortly.
The President arrived at the memorial at 12:12 PM alongside the Vice President. The President is wearing a blue suit with a white shirt and blue tie and aviator sunglasses.
"America The Beautiful" can be heard from the stage on the other side of the monument, currently not visible to the pool. POTUS and the Vice President paused to admire the monument.
At 12:16 the pool is moving to the stage on the other side of the monument to hear remarks.
At 12:20 PM Speaker Pelosi got on stage, followed by the President and Vice President.
The memorial can be seen behind the stage. On the stage is a large screen with the text "Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial 10th Anniversary Celebration" The crowd of several hundred stood and remained standing for the following.
At 12:21 invocation by Rev. Dr. Joe Ratliff led invocation.
At 12:23 Michele Fowlin, director of DCPAC Children's Gospel Choir sang. The crowd sang along. Cheering at 12:28 pm when song ended.
Crowd sat for Taylor Cowan - a Social Justice Fellow for the Foundation - she began speaking about Dr. King at 12:29 PM. "Dr. King was the embodiment of love." POTUS and the Vice President listened from the stage.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks are approximately 450 invited guests in the audience, including civil rights leaders, Members of Congress, and government officials.
//
Speaker Pelosi, In a light pink suit, welcomed to podium at 12:33 PM by Harry Johnson, President and CEO OF Memorial Foundation. The Speaker mentions late Congressman John Lewis. She later asks attending members of Congressional Black Caucus to stand. At mention of "first African American Vice President of US" big cheers and standing among the crowd.
VP Harris welcomed to podium at 12:42 PM.
She speaks of Pelosi ("The Speaker has always been who she is today") and Congressional Black Caucus, who wave to the VP on stage.
She talks about investing in child care, union jobs, and the right to vote. "The voting rights act was gutted" by Supreme Court case.
She references the 2 voting rights bills currently in Congress and Republicans "voted against even debating" the topic. (Check against full transcript.)
VP Harris wraps and welcomes President Biden to the podium at 12:52 PM.
"From here we see the ongoing push and pull between progress and struggle…"
"The process of governing is frustration… we are at an inflection point - and maybe I've overused that phrase - in American history…"
Talks about investing in "working families," reducing child poverty. He also speaks of infrastructure: dangerous intersections, clean drinking water, wifi.
"We can find purpose in this pain."
POTUS jokes about the best HBCU being Delaware State, crowd laughs.
POTUS mentions Republican governors and AGs following the former President into a "dark abyss."
1:14 PM POTUS pauses as loud plane flies overhead.
POTUS mentions Georgia and Sen. Warnock.
POTUS mentions KKK & Charlottesville, and the insurrection on 1/6. "The through line is that hate never goes away… it only hides."
POTUS quotes an Irish poet.
(Please check all remarks against full transcript.)
POTUS wrapped at 1:21 PM. Pool is en route back to motorcade.
Motorcade left Memorial at 1:28 PM.
Motorcade arrived at White House at 1:33 PM.
POTUS seen exiting the car and seen entering the Oval.
WH says briefing moved to 2:30pm.--
2 minute warning for briefing with Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre left the podium at 3:45 PM.
Dinner lid until 6 PM.
Marine One departed the White House South Lawn at 6:56 PM en route to Baltimore for the CNN town hall.
POTUS and the First Lady walked directly to Marine One, POTUS waved to the pool. He was wearing a dark suit and she was wearing a cream suit. Both were wearing masks.
Also traveling with POTUS and the First Lady, from the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Marine One to Baltimore, Maryland:
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Handing the pool baton off to the out-of-town pooler. I'll be back when POTUS returns this evening.
Marine One touched down on WH South Lawn at 10:32 PM.
POTUS poked his head in the cockpit before taking the First Lady's hand and walked towards the White House. The pair stopped to admire the full moon before entering WH at 10:36 PM.
POTUS did not answer any questions but waved to the pool while passing.
We have a travel/photo lid at 10:38 PM.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
??Good evening from Fort McHenry, I'll be your travel pooler for the CNN Town Hall this evening in Baltimore.
Marine One touched down at Fort McHenry at 7:17 pm.
POTUS and the First Lady were greeted by Maryland Sens. Ben Cardin and Chris Van Hollen, Maryland Rep. John Sarbanes, and Baltimore Mayor Brandon Scott. They all spoke for several minutes.
He did not respond to shouted questions from the pool. We are now rolling to Baltimore Center Stage. The Town Hall is from 8 - 9:30pm.
Passing along from the White House—
Traveling with the President and First Lady on Marine One:
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Traveling on Nighthawk-2:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Also traveling to Baltimore:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Michael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Staff Secretary
?Motorcade arrived at Baltimore Center Stage at 7:37 pm.
Outside Center Stage, protesters were yelling and holding signs that said "Biden climate emergency now" & "biden: no fossil fuel projects!" Also, "keep Iran deal" and "free Assange"
Pooler saw people along the drive standing on the sidewalk taking photos of the motorcade. At the entrance to Fort McHenry, people waved and cheered while the motorcade exited.
The CNN Town Hall has started.
At the start of the commercial break, President Biden shook hands with the man who asked a question in a Morgan State orange sweatshirt.
He shook hands with some other people in the audience, then sat down in his chair on stage.
He pulled out his phone from his jacket pocket, quickly glanced at it, and then was called backstage for the remaining two minutes of commercial break.
Everyone in the audience is wearing masks and nearly every seat is filled.
The CNN Town Hall has ended.
Motorcade is rolling back to Fort McHenry for the president's departure.
While the motorcade was leaving the Baltimore Center Stage, some people were yelling and taking photographs. Pool did not see POTUS.
?POTUS and the First Lady boarded Marine One and it was wheels up from Baltimore at 10:04 pm.
Handing off to in town pool, have a good evening.