Pool Reports by 
, 
?The pool has gathered for President Biden's south lawn departure to Scranton.
President Biden walked out of the Oval Office with Sen. Bob Casey (D-Pa.) at 3:14.
He did not stop to take questions, though several were shouted, including about a report that Sen. Joe Manchin might leave the Democratic Party.
Marine One was wheels up en route to JBA at 3:20.
The White House shares the following:
Traveling with the President on Marine One:
Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning, NSC
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
The White House asked the pool to share the following:
Attached/below is a policy memo on the bipartisan infrastructure deal and Build Back Better Agenda ahead of the President's trip to Baltimore, MD tomorrow.
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 October 20, 2021
 Background on BID and BBB for the President's Visit to Maryland
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make a generational investment in Maryland's infrastructure and resilience.
· In Maryland there are 
 in poor condition.
· Based on formula funding alone, Maryland will receive 
· Maryland residents who take public transportation spend an extra 66% of their time commuting. More than 
 in the state are past useful life.
· Based on formula funding alone, Maryland will receive at least
· 11% of Maryland households do not have an internet subscription.
· Maryland will receive a minimum allocation of 
 across the state, including providing access to the more than 148,000 people in Maryland who currently lack it.
· Currently, up to 10 million American households and 400,000 schools and child care centers lack safe drinking water across the country.
· Maryland would expect to receive 
.
· From 2010 to 2020, Maryland experienced 31 extreme weather events.
· BID includes a 
 to strengthen our infrastructure for the impacts of climate change.
The Build Back Better Agenda will make life better for millions of working families in Maryland.
· The average two-parent household spends 
 every year.
· The lack of affordable child care contributes to the 
 between mothers and fathers in Maryland.
· 
 for most low-and middle-income Maryland residents and improves quality of child care.
· Only 31% of 3- and 4-year-olds in Maryland are enrolled in publicly-funded pre-school.
· BBB will offer 
 in Maryland, in the setting of a parent's choice.
· 
· BBB's Child Tax Credit extension will benefit more than 1.1 million children in Maryland, 
· Before the Rescue Plan, low-income childless workers were taxed into poverty.
· BBB's expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for childless workers will 
.
· The average cost of a 2-year degree in Maryland is $4,800 per year.
· BBB will reduce the cost of college, expanding the maximum Pell Grant, 
 who rely on Pell for their education.
· 
 spend more than 30% of their income on rent.
· BBB will bolster affordable and resilient housing, supporting the construction or rehabilitation of more than one million homes.
Marine One landed on the lawn at 9:25 and President Biden walked into the White House residence at 9:29 without stopping to take questions.
We have a travel/photo lid.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from Joint Base Andrews. Marine One touched down at 3:29 pm.
POTUS walked off with Senator Casey. He took a few questions.
"I think we'll get a deal," he said on his spending package.
Asked if he was concerned about hyper sonic missiles, he said: "Yes."
Greeting the President upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Scranton, Pennsylvania:
President Biden is headed to Scranton for his first trip to his hometown as president. He was last in Scranton on Election Day 2020. He will speak at the Electric City Trolley Museum on the infrastructure bill and his Build Back Better agenda.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki will gaggle in flight. It will air on White House live. 
Greeting the President upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews was Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Scranton:
We are traveling on the small plane so service is limited. We will be wheels up shortly for the 50 minute flight.
The White House sent out the background memo on the trip last night. But I've included it again below for your convenience.
 Out-of-Town Travel Pool
 White House Press Office
 October 19, 2021
 Background on BID and BBB for the President's Visit to Pennsylvania
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will make a generational investment in Pennsylvania's infrastructure and resilience:
The Build Back Better Plan will make life better for millions of working families in Pennsylvania:
AF1 was wheels down at Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport at 4:22 pm.
Jen Psaki gaggled in flight for about 20 minutes.
POTUS exited with Sen. Bob Casey following him. Both men wore face masks. Both removed them once they were outside to speak with greeters. One woman greeter handed POTUS a piece of paper he carried into the Beast.
Upon arrival at Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport, the President was greeted by:
At 4:37 pm we are rolling to the Electric City Trolley Museum. It's about a 15 minute drive.
Motorcade arrived at Electric City Trolley Museum at 4:52 pm. Part of the route was on the "President Biden Expressway" according to signs over the road way the motorcade drove under.
Protesters were on the route in downtown Scranton as motorcade approached museum. Some waved Trump signs and some waved anti-abortion signs. There was a second group a little further down also protesting with signs like "not my president" and "Bidenhole."
There were a few supporters mixed in waving "welcome" signs.
Pool is pre-setting for a POTUS tour of the trolley museum.
POTUS is touring the Electric City Trolley Museum
"It's an honor to be here," POTUS said.
Biden was shown the display with the history of the city by Wayne R. Hiller, Executive Director and Manager of the museum.
Hiller did most of the talking, giving details of the room.
In the rook there is one life sized trolley car has "Build Back Better Scranton Pa" signs. It is car 506 and was built in 1920. There are a few smaller model trolley cars. There are two electric signs reading "The Electric City." A display gives the history of the trolley system in Scranton.
We are next to the gift shop. There are a few "Dunder Mifflin" t-shirts for sale along with other goodies tied to the museum - mugs, shirts, jewelry and magnets.
From the White House:
The President is touring the Electric City Trolley Museum.
Accompanying the President on this tour:
Trolley Car #506 is a fully restored trolley that was one of a dozen safety cars delivered by the Osgood Bradley Car Company to the Reading trolley network.
Rocky Glen Amusement Park is a local amusement park near Scranton that was open for over 100 years.
Trolley Car #46 is the only surviving car of the first-generation cars that ran on the Philadelphia and Western Railway.
Quick correction from White House on who is traveling with POTUS today:
Elizabeth Jurinka is NOT traveling with the President.
Dep Asst to the Pres & Dep Dir Leg Aff & Senate Liaison Reema Dodin is.
Pool moving to tour stop #2.
At stop two POTUS saw a life sized trolley car with the number 46. Biden is president 46.
The green trolley car also has "Build Back Better Scranton Pa" signs on it.
Hiller told Biden many people enjoyed touring the museum and Biden noted he could see that. He talked to Hiller about the electric investment in his Build Back Better plan.
Pool was then pulled to outside the museum where Biden will give remarks, which will be live streamed.
POTUS took the stage at 5:28 pm to the sounds of "Hail to the Chief."
The speech is being aired on White House Live: 
The speaking program, per the White House:
• Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf
• Scranton Mayor Paige Cognetti
• Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey
• Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-08)
• Shane Cawley, Ironworker, Local 404
The speech is taking place outside the museum on a beautiful, 72 degree evening. There are four life sized trolley cars parked outside with stars and stripes banners on them. There are many "Build Back Better" signs.
There are rail tracks leading into the museum entrance and the speaking stage is built on top of them. There are about 50 people in chairs in a semi-circle around the stage.
Bill Flynn, the CEO of Amtrak, and Stephen Gardner, president of Amtrak, are here. Rep. Cartwright gave them a shout out in his remarks.
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 6:21 pm, speaking for about 48 minutes.
Pool is holding in a press file.
POTUS is working the rope line after his remarks.
From the White House:
The family members the President mentioned at the top of his remarks are his cousins in the Finnegan family.
Before departing for the trip to Scranton, the President stopped by the Vice President's office to wish her a Happy Birthday and to give her flowers from the First Lady and a birthday present.
?POTUS is doing a photo line.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Motorcade left the Electric City Trolley Museum at 7:42 pm.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS.
From the White House:
President Biden and Senator Casey met with advocates for home and community-based services to discuss the importance of the Build Back Better agenda, including:
Kate Dempsey Jones, CEO, Goodwill of Northeastern PA
Lisa Raub, Community Living Manager, Goodwill of Northeastern Pennsylvania
Lynn Weidner, Care Worker
Illona (Gail) Thurston, Former HCBS Client of Goodwill of Northeastern Pennsylvania
Ramon Lesavage, Care Recipient
Brandon Kingsmore, Care Recipient
We are rolling.
Motorcade arrived at the Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport at 7:56 pm.
A few people shouted and waved as the motorcade went by, rolling along under the light of the full moon.
POTUS brought along his cousins who were at the speech to get a tour of the plane. They followed him up the stairway. He waited with them at the top of the stairway so the official photographer could get their photo.
From the White House earlier: The family members the President mentioned at the top of his remarks are his cousins in the Finnegan family.
Pool is being told to load the plane while the tour is happening. The cousins, who live in Scranton, will be exiting plane after tour.
POTUS brought the cousins back to press section as part of tour.
He gave short remakes, saying this is his family. This is press cabin. And he explained the 747 has more space but wouldn't fit at this airport.
Will send full quotes in next report. We are wheels up shortly.
Huge thanks to co-pooler Natasha Korecki of Politico for this and all her help today:
Biden wandered back into the press area of AF1 as he gave his family from Scranton a tour of the aircraft.
"Hard to believe it's much bigger but it is," he said, pointing to the media.
"The reason we couldn't bring it up here is the runway's too short." Which was a reference to POTUS being on the smaller plane instead of the 747.
"By the way, they're all crazy about me," Biden said, gesturing toward the press.
"How couldn't they be?" one of his companions said.
There appeared to be four family members getting the tour.
AF1 still on tarmac as we presume tour is ongoing. Also thanks to AP's Darlene Superville for family and tour details.
?At 8:18 pm POTUS walked his family off the plane. He stayed at top of stairs.
We are rolling soon.
Air Force One was wheels up from Scranton at 8:25 pm and landed at JBA at 8:58 pm.
Flight back was uneventful with no further visitors to press cabin.
Served on board during dinner were a variety of mini cupcakes from Cupa Cake, a Scranton bakery, including carmel apple, pumpkin, birthday cake, mint fudge and almond joy.
POTUS got off plane with Senator Bob Casey and Rep. Matt Cartwright.
POTUS walked to Marine One while the Senator and congressman went to the staff vans.
Marine One was wheels up at 9:15 pm.
Handing off to the in town pool …