Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! My name is Hailey Fuchs, and I'll be your in-town pool reporter today. In case you missed it, the President is scheduled to speak at 9:30am and leave for Rehoboth Beach at 10:15am. Pool will be gathering shortly.
Pool just settled in the State Dining Room. We're waiting for updated guidance from the White House about when the President will speak.
Two minute warning at 9:57 am
The President began speaking at the podium in the State Dining Room around 9:59am. He is standing beside the VP.
The President concluded his remarks on infrastructure and BBB, along with a Q&A with reporters at 10:30 am. He departed the State Dining Room alongside the VP, ignoring more shouted questions from the press.
President Biden departed for Rehoboth Beach from the White House, wheels up in Marine 1 at 11:17 am. After the First Lady and the President, several others boarded.
Per WH:
Departing for Rehoboth Beach, DE with the President and the First Lady:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Handing off to out of town pool. Have a great weekend!
Some more details from President Biden's departure:
Then President and the First Lady were holding hands as they walked towards Marine 1. He did not take questions from the press.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach, Delaware. I'll be your pooler this weekend.
Pool has been swept and we're waiting at Gordons Pond for POTUS and FLOTUS to arrive.
Marine One landed at Gordons Pond at 12:20 p.m. ET. The president and FLOTUS emerged at 12:22 p.m. and entered their car. Pool was positioned far away.
Motorcade was rolling at 12:25 p.m. and dropped POTUS and FLOTUS off at their house. Pool broke away at 12:28 p.m.
White House called a lunch lid until 3 p.m.
Pool has been swept and we're waiting near the president's house.
Motorcade is rolling at 4:02 p.m. to an undisclosed location.
Pool arrived at 4:08 p.m. and did not see POTUS enter. The president is attending mass at St. Edmond Catholic Church.
POTUS exited St. Edmond Catholic Church at 4:46 p.m. He waved to onlookers and shouted at them but pool could not make out what he said. He did not respond to shouted questions from pool.
The president entered his SUV and motorcade is rolling at 4:48 p.m.
Motorcade dropped POTUS off at his house at 4:53 p.m.
We have a lid at 4:55 p.m. Have a wonderful Saturday.