Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello all,
I'm your in-town print pooler on this crisp Friday in Washington.
The president is scheduled to deliver remarks on the October jobs report at 10:15 am and attend the funeral of General Colin Powell at noon. Deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to hold the White House briefing at 2:30 PM.
I'll be in touch. Hope you all have a wonderful day.
Pool has been told to gather for the president's remarks on the jobs report. You can watch the remarks here:
2 minute warning for POTUS remarks on job report
Biden spoke from 10:51 to 11:03. He did not answer shouted questions about whether there should be a House vote without a CBO score.
He said he would answer questions later today after the bill is passed.
Pool was loaded into vans at roughly 11:20 a.m. After FLOTUS entered the motorcade at roughly 11:30 a.m., we were repositioned to pick up POTUS at 11:34 a.m.
We're rolling to Washington National Cathedral for the funeral of General Colin Powell at 11:38 am.
Also a correction to the last report. At the end of his remarks, the president said he would be back to answer questions after the bill has passed. He did not specify that he would be back to answer questions TODAY after the bill has passed.
After an uneventful ride, motorcade arrived at the Washington National Cathedral for the funeral of General Colin Powell at 11:48 a.m.
?The funeral is being carried live. Before it began at noon, the US Army Brass quintet played some jovial tunes, including "Dancing Queen" by ABBA.
Here's some background from the White House. I'm also attaching some photos of the program.
Attendees at the funeral service for former General Colin Powell:
* Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
* Former President George W. Bush and Mrs. Laura Bush
* Former President Barack Obama and Mrs. Michelle Obama
* Former Vice President Dick Cheney and Mrs. Lynne Cheney
* Secretary Antony Blinken and Ms. Evan Ryan
* Secretary Lloyd Austin and Mrs. Austin
* General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
* Current Joint Chiefs of Staff
* Michael Powell, Son of Secretary Powell
* Mrs. Alma Powell, Wife of Secretary Powell
* Linda Powell, Daughter of Secretary Powell
* Former Secretaries of State, Defense and Joint Chiefs of Staff
* Members of the Diplomatic Corps
Pooler now has a view of POTUS via monitor set up in our seating area.
The president is masked and sitting in the front-left pew next to the First Lady. To their left are Obamas and to the left of them are the Bushes. Hillary Clinton is seated at the end of the pew.
Tweeting out photos.
Passing along from the White House.
Delivering remarks at the funeral service:
The Honorable Richard L. Armitage
The Honorable Madeleine K. Albright
The Honorable Michael K. Powell
Reading the First Lesson:
Annemarie Powell Lyons
Reading Psalm 121:
Marybel Batjer
Reading the Second Lesson:
Samuel Ebbeson
Reading the Holy Gospel:
The Reverend Joshua D. Walters
Delivering the Homily:
The Reverend Canon Stuart A. Kenworth
?Correcting a spelling error in the list of speaker names passed along by the White House.
Delivering the homily will be The Reverend Canon Stuart A. Kenworthy.
?The president and First Lady spoke to the Powell family from their pew at 1:52 PM before departing the cathedral. The president, still masked, leaned in for a close embrace of Alma Powell.
The Obamas and Bushes then each greeted the Powell family.
Pool was loaded into the vans at 1:57 PM. We're rolling at 2:01 PM.
Motorcade pulled back into the White House at 2:11 PM.
Now at 2:45 PM.
White House says it will now start at 3 PM.
Two minute warning for the press briefing.
At 3:53 PM.
We've got a dinner lid until 6 PM.
From the White House: The President and the First Lady are no longer traveling to Rehoboth this evening.
Hello all. Hope everyone is hanging in there.
I'm passing this along from a White House official: The President is in the residence with his policy and legislative teams making calls and staying in close touch with leadership and members.
VP is also with POTUS and legislative teams in the residence as they call leadership and members, per White House official.
LID, per White House.
That's all, folks. It's been a pleasure. Until next time.
LID was officially called at 11:46 PM.
(sorry, been a long one!).