Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House where we're loading into a van for a hike trip to the Goddard Space Flight Center.
The White House passes along the following background:
Today, November 5, Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Greenbelt, Maryland to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Goddard Space Flight Center to underscore how the U.S. is harnessing one of the nations' most powerful tools – our space program to combat the climate crisis and protect vulnerable communities. 
During her visit, she will announce that the Administration's inaugural meeting of the National Space Council on will be held on December 1, 2021. She will also present the first imagery returns from the recently launched Landsat 9 Earth observation mission.
The Vice President, joined by NASA Administrator Bill Nelson and leaders from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), will tour the climate-oriented space activities underway at NASA Goddard and learn about the collaboration among U.S. federal agencies on space missions that are central to tackling the climate crisis and improving our scientific understanding of Earth. Following the tour, the Vice President will deliver remarks.
The Vice President's visit comes on the heels of President Biden's engagements at COP26 – and builds on her work to amplify the Biden-Harris Administration's leadership and historic investments to address the climate crisis.


The Vice President and officials will hear from NASA, NOAA, and USGS specialists who design, develop, and operate space missions that address aspects of the climate crisis, including:
 




Pool saw Vice President Kamala Harris board her car at 3:29 p.m. ET. The motorcade left the White House shortly after and we're en route to the Goddard Center.
After an uneventful ride to Maryland the VP's motorcade arrived at Goddard at 3:55 p.m. ET.
The press van peeled off from the rest of the motorcade so pool did not see the vice president disembark from her car.
The White House passed along this list of your participants:
Tour participants:
Stop 1: Robotics Operation Center w/ USGS Acting Director Applegate who will explain the Landsat 7 mission.

Stop 2: Stop 2: Robotics Operation Center to hear about GOES/PACE satellite missions w/ NOAA Assistant Administrator Stephen Volz. Pam Sullivan and Dr. Jeremy Werdell will give presentation
Stop 3: Stop 3: Hyperwall, to hear about climate change w/ Deputy Administrator Pam Mellroy, Dr. Lesley Ott, and Dr. Christian Braneon
Harris could be seen touring the facility alongside Senator Chris Van Hollen and Administrator Nelson at 4:15 p.m.
At one point she used one of the joysticks to rotate and move a mechanical arm.
At 4:25 pool and the traveling press were lead over to where Goddard personnel described some of the NASA GOESAR satellites and the technology NASA uses with NOAA.
Pool could not make out the question she asked the NASA personnel.
At 4:34 pm Harris was led over to sit for a briefing and presentation by Deputy NASA Administrator Pam Melroy and NASA scientists on the Goddard Center, NASA's focuses and satellites.
The White House also passes along a correction to a list of names it sent out earlier:
The tour concluded at 5:00 p.m. Dennis J. Andrucyk, the Goddard Center director, closed out.
Harris thanked the NASA staff for their presentation.
Pool and the press that traveled with Harris today were then lead to a different room where an audience was waiting for Harris's remarks to begin. The stage is set up in front of the SES (Space Environment Simulator).
At 5:11 Senator Chris Van Hollen took the stage to give remarks.
Van Hollen praised Harris for leading the national space council "which she chairs" he said.
Van Hollen also thanked Nelson and the partners at NASA and NOAA in their work to fight climate change.
After introductory remarks from Sen. Nelson, Harris took the stage at 5:27 p.m.
Her remarks will be live-streamed.?
Harris concluded her remarks at 5:37 pm. She did not respond to a question from the press.
Pool was led back to the press van. The van waited until 5:55 when it joined the rest of the motorcade. We're on the move back to D.C.
The press van split off from the rest of the motorcade at 12th and Constitution at around 6:15. The Vice President headed back to the Naval Observatory. We arrived back at the White House at 6:20 p.m.
Have a good evening.