Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'll be your pooler today.
While holding in our bus in the motorcade, we saw Secretary Blinken approaching the RON with a handful of aides. We also saw Karine Jean-Pierre, Emily Horne and some other aides approach. And later, Jake Sullivan.
While waiting, we also had a nice view of The Beast and its decoy. Agents were vigorously rubbing the first car - the Beast's twin - with a cloth and taking photos in front of it before POTUS emerged. Agents pulled a curtain around the president's vehicle, so we did not have eyes on him when he loaded. But then it rolled by and we caught a glimpse of him seated inside with Blinken.
Anyway. We are rolling to the Scottish Event Center at 8:39 am.
The most recent version of today's schedule (GMT) is below, per WH:
Motorcade is still en route.
Meanwhile, per WH:
Today, on the margins of COP, President Biden and European Commission President Von der Leyen will host a meeting with several G7 partners to hear from countries with major infrastructure needs on how major democracies of the world can meet the enormous infrastructure need in the developing world.
Participants include Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the UK, and Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan. Italy will also be joining. Leaders representing countries with major infrastructure needs include President Felix Tshisekedi of the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India; President Ivan Duque of Colombia; Prime Minister Mia Mottley of Barbados; President Guillermo Lasso of Ecuador; and President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria. As the United States and our partners start to develop and implement the Build Back Better World initiative, we recognize that robust, meaningful partnerships will be critical and that is what this meeting is about.
Most crucially, we will discuss how Build Back Better World will be an integral part of our fight against climate change by helping countries build sustainable, clean infrastructure and the enormous economic opportunity it presents. This meeting is also a clear contrast with other global actors like China who are building infrastructure that locks developing countries into unsustainable debt traps and fossil-dependent infrastructure for decades to come.
Following this meeting, Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics and G7 and G20 Sherpa will travel to Africa and meet with leadership in Ghana and Senegal as part of the second B3W listening tour, the first on the African continent. He will be joined by MCC and USAID representatives and meet with civil society representatives in both countries, as well as private sector companies, and visit project sites that reflect the sort of infrastructure which B3W will deliver in the future. More information to come.
Earlier this year, President Biden and PM Johnson spoke about the need to counter low-quality infrastructure development, like China and show democracies can offer a better product. In June, President Biden and G7 Leaders 
e.
In September, President Biden 
 and following his remarks, Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics traveled to Panama, Colombia, and Ecuador in October to hear directly from a range of Latin American stakeholders—government officials, civil society, and traditionally marginalized groups.
The president's motorcade arrived at the Scottish Event Campus in Glasgow at 9:40 am.
The drive from Edinburgh to Glasgow was nice, with pastoral views and countless sheep. The route also featured onlookers who were taking pictures/video of the motorcade.
The president's first event, which is about the preservation of forests, was limited to small number of people and am unsure if print pool will make it in. Will effort some quotes if so.
His remarks should be streaming here: 
POTUS took the stage at 9:59 am and spoke for about five minutes.
He said he was bringing together a "full range" of government tools to restore forest loss.
"The United States will help the world deliver on our shared goal of halting natural forest loss and restoring 200 million hectares of forest, and other ecosystems by 2030," he said.
"The United States is going to lead by example at home" … "all we need to do is summon the will to do what we know is right."
He then took his seat in between British PM Boris Johnson and Felix Tshisekedi, president of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Check against transcripts.
The forests event ended and POTUS walked off the stage at 10:21 am, just before the billionaire Jeff Bezos walked out for a different event and started talking about how much it moved him to see Earth from space.
We will rejoin the rest of the pool in the hold now.
Check against transcripts
"I want to recognize the Presidential Republic of the Congo" for a "very considerable commitment to conserve."
"We all work together to make sure that these precious resources are conserved in Africa and around the world attention to reduce reduce carbon globally" … "So we need to approach this issue with the same seriousness and focus."
POTUS said his administration already exceeded a 2021 challenge goal with 20 million hectares of forest restoration, and he signed an EO during his first weeks in office that set a goal of preserving 30 percent of all US lands and waters by the year 2030.
He said a new plan would marshall a whole of government effort to help the US "help the world deliver on our shared goal of halting natural forest loss and restoring peace with 200 million hectares of forest and other ecosystems."
"All we need to do is summon the will to do what we know is right … . Let's get to work."
POTUS, who hosted the Build Back Better World event with President Biden and European Commission President Von der Leyen, began speaking at about 11:30 am.
Participants included Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the UK, and Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan.
The gist from the WH: "Build Back Better World will be an integral part of our fight against climate change by helping countries build sustainable, clean infrastructure and the enormous economic opportunity it presents. This meeting is also a clear contrast with other global actors like China who are building infrastructure that locks developing countries into unsustainable debt traps and fossil-dependent infrastructure for decades to come."
The White House is streaming the event here:
Some quotes off the top:
Check transcripts.
Reminder that pool report 1a contains a lot of background on the event.
Spotted by co-pooler Chris Megerian (and thanks to him for some of those quotes above): Indian Prime Minister Modi, Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau, Japanese Prime Minister Kishida. Blinken and Kerry were also sitting in the back.
Pool was ushered out at 11:49. Ben Gittleson from ABC asked another question about Manchin, adding "your legislation may fail," as pool was guided toward the door. No answer.
While walking to the methane pledge event, a rather stunned pool encountered President Biden walking through the conference with his delegation. Things quickly turned chaotic.
As he wove his way through a crowd of hundreds of people - many of them journalists - he ignored more shouted questions about Joe Manchin.
We are waiting for the event to start.
?From WH: The meeting on the Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative ended at 12:45 PM.
Also: President Biden spoke briefly with Prime Minister Kishida of Japan prior to the Build Back Better World event this morning at COP26. President Biden reinforced the important of the U.S.-Japan alliance and discussed regional and global issues.
The president was running late. At 1:21 pm, John Kerry, the president's climate envoy, took the podium and said the president was "extremely grateful" for the event happening today: "It reminds me when I was in the Navy. We had a saying: 'Hurry up and wait,'" Kerry joked. Then he approached the podium again — "I'll do what I learned how to do in the Senate, which is filibuster," to deliver a lengthier introduction.
At 1:31 pm, POTUS arrived onstage with Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, and joined several leaders, including PM Justin Trudeau of Canada, for an event celebrating a pledge made by more than 80 countries to cut methane emissions by at least 30 percent by 2030 from 2020 levels.
In opening remarks, Von der Leyen said that cutting back on methane emissions was "one of the most effective things we can do to reduce global warming" and called doing so "the lowest-hanging fruit." She said the greatest potential for cuts was in the energy sector but said opportunities lie in other sectors, including agriculture.
Quotes from POTUS - check transcripts:
Before Von der Leyen and POTUS spoke, a map of the world was displayed. Nations participating in the pledge were blue and nonparticipants were white. I posted it on my Twitter account @katierogers if you'd like to take a look which countries have signed on.
Also, the actor Leonardo DiCaprio was also in attendance.
You can stream the event here: 
Well before the 2:30 event was supposed to start, a segment of the pool peeled off to attend an event dedicated to clean technology innovation.
When we arrived, the billionaire Bill Gates mingled and posed for photos in front of a race car that appeared to be papier-mâché'd with recycled plastic.
Hage Geingob, the president of Namibia, was also nearby admiring the car.
Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, also strode in, wearing a poppy pinned to his lapel, and took a look at the car.
Ursula von der Leyen was also brought to see the car, which we have been told is part of a technology display.
She spoke with Rajiv Shah, a former Obama administration official and current president of the Rockefeller Foundation, in front of the car for a bit.
Then all of the attending Royal highnesses, lords, ladies and gentlemen were told by a voice over the loudspeaker to take their seats for the program.
But then Boris Johnson was guided over to the car: "What's this!?" he exclaimed, delighted to see the car. He fist-bumped with PM Modi, embraced him, and then the two of them gave thumbs-ups to the cameras. Boris gave more thumbs ups and then walked away. Then he drifted back to the cameras and posed some more.
But then: All of the attending Royal highnesses, lords, ladies and gentlemen were told by a voice over the loudspeaker to take their seats for the program. Again.
The lights dimmed. We are still awaiting the president's arrival at 2:48 pm.
The event began at 2:53 pm. POTUS was introduced over loudspeaker, but did not take the stage with other leaders as Boris Johnson began.
POTUS took the stage at 3:05 pm.
- "Setting ambitious targets is only half the equation as you all know."
- "We have to immediately scale up clean technologies that are already commercially available"
- Says the US has committed to 30 gigawatts of offshore wind by 2030, which will create clean jobs.
- "This also must be a decisive decade for innovation."
- He said there would be a year of action in 2022 to advance clean technologies globally.
- He introduces a First movers coalition: Two dozen of world's most innovative companies will be critical partners in pushing for carbon alternatives across industries.
- "We are sending the demand signal loud and clear and investing in research and development to expand supply."
- Says the US and 75 partners will marshall $4 billion to explore clean farming and food system initiatives.
His speech ended at 3:12 pm.
More:
Other leaders are speaking about their various initiatives. Pool stayed, listening along with the president.
POTUS rubbed his eyes at one point, and at another stood up to shake the hand of Ursula von der Leyen after she delivered her speech, telling the crowd there was "no better race to win" than the one to curb global emissions.
After the event, which ended at 3:34 pm, POTUS spoke with PM Modi for a few moments and exited the stage.
We are making our way back to the pool hold.
Per the WH and attributable to a Senior Administration Official:
President Joe Biden met today with His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales on the margins of COP26 in Glasgow. President Biden and Prince Charles discussed the importance of global cooperation in tackling climate change. They underlined the need for ambitious commitments and concrete actions among partners worldwide and discussed Prince Charles' initiatives to engage the private sector on sustainability. President Biden reaffirmed the strength of the enduring ties between the United Kingdom and the United States, and he thanked the United Kingdom for hosting COP26. He commended the Royal Family for its dedication to climate issues, particularly Prince Charles' environmental activism over the last half century.
?Pool and other journalists are assembled ahead of the president's news conference, which is scheduled for 7:30 pm.
Surprise!
?POTUS walked offstage at 7:42 pm and did not answer a shouted question about whether he was mad at Joe Manchin.
Pool headed to bus.
?Motorcade is rolling at 7:49 pm.
We are still holding at SEC.
Departing for the hour-ish ride to Edinburgh at 8:44 p.m.
Well, this was fun.
After missing its exit on the highway on the way to the airport in Edinburgh, the president's motorcade had to take an off ramp and conduct what was essentially a very over-the-top U-turn.
Given the length of time it took to get to the airport from there, it appeared that we significantly overshot the original turn, but whatever. We made it eventually.
The motorcade pulled up to Air Force One at 10:01 pm. The president spent a few moments with his greeter before boarding AF1. He turned back at the top of the stairs, waved and pointed. We are wheels up shortly at 10:07 pm.
From WH:
Upon arrival at Edinburgh Airport, the President will be greeted by:
T.H. Philip Reeker, Chargé d'affaires, Embassy of the United States to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 1:06 am after an uneventful flight with no visitors.
Throughout the flight the TV toggled between CNN and Fox, with both networks covering the VA governors race.
POTUS disembarked at 1:18 am and Marine One lifted for the White House at 1:24 am.
A correction from earlier: The motorcade intentionally took the highway U-turn route to Edinburgh due to airspace issues, according to a White House official.
That's all from me. Handing off to in-town pool.
 
Pool Report below by 
, 
Good Night/Morning (Depending on when you read this)
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 1:35am EDT
POTUS entered the WH at 1:38am. He did not respond to shouted questions seeking a response about election results.
Travel photo lid called at 1:39am
From the White House Press Office:
Returning to the White House with the President on Marine One:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President