Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on a pleasant fall day in Washington. I'll be your in-town print pooler today before President Biden heads off to Rome. President Biden is scheduled to speak with the House Democratic Caucus (closed press) at 9am and then return to the White House to deliver remarks on his economic agenda at 11:30am. He'll depart for Europe just after noon.
Pool is expected to gather to leave for the Capitol in about 4 minutes.
Don't hesitate to reach out with questions.
Motorcade is on the move as of 9:01am en route to the Capitol.
Your pooler saw a handful of aides get into cars before we departed, including who I believe to be Brian Deese, Susan Rice and Louisa Terrell.
?We arrived at the Capitol after a short drive at 9:08am. The president entered the Capitol a short bit afterwards and pool was inside for his arrival.
The president answered "yes" when asked asked if he had enough support to get progressives on board. He also said "it's a good day."
When a reporter asked if Sen. Sanders was on board, Biden answered:
"Everybody's on board," Biden said. "You aren't, aren't you."
The White House passes along the following -
A few protesters holding a sign that read "Biden keep your promises: we want to live"
Upon arrival at the Capitol, the President will be greeted by:
Major General William J. Walker, House Sergeant at Arms
Speaker Nancy Pelosi
The President and the Speaker will then greet in the Hall of Columns with:
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer
Majority Whip James Clyburn
Assistant Speaker Katherine Clark
Democratic Caucus Chairman Hakeem Jeffries
DCCC Chairman Sean Patrick Maloney
I tweeted video of the president's arrival for those interested:
The White House passes the following along:
Traveling to the Capitol with the President:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Shuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs and House Liaison
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security Council
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
?Correction to pool report #3 - in my haste I included a line on the protesters below what the White House had sent. To clarify, the protesters were part of my own observation upon arriving at the Capitol. And to finish my thought —
A few protesters holding a sign that read "Biden keep your promises: we want to live" were positioned outside the Capitol when we arrived.
Biden exited the meeting and passed the pool around 10:12am. He was inside speaking with Democrats for about an hour. He walked by the pool talking to Speaker Pelosi and didn't answer shouted questions from the press. Several aides followed behind.
We are rolling back to the White House as of 10:15am.
We're back at the White House as of 10:22am. Pool did not see the president enter the White House.
Next up is Biden's 11:30am speech in the East Room which will be live streamed.
The White House says that the president's remarks will now occur at 11:15am. We're told to gather at 11am.
The speech will be livestreamed here: 
Two-minute warning until remarks from President Biden.
Again, these remarks are streaming on the White House website. I'll send any color.
Pool spotted WH officials Mike Donilon and Bruce Reed at the back of the room.
President Biden wrapped up his speech at 12:05pm. He did not answer shouted questions from reporters.
Vice President Harris joined Biden. FLOTUS was also spotted in the room seated watching the address behind the press.
Reporters are positioned on the South Lawn for departure.
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the White House hand-in-hand at 12:28pm. The president did not stop to take press questions. A number of aides followed behind. Marine One was wheels up at 12:32pm.
Handing off to out of town pool.
The White House shares the following:
Traveling on Marine One with the President and the First Lady:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Passing along from the White House --
The gaggle on Air Force One with Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will begin in approximately 15 minutes and will be streamed on WH.gov/live
The link is here: 
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Andrews Air Force Base. Passing on this update on Press Secretary Jen Psaki ahead of the trip:
Due to a family emergency, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki will no longer be traveling with the President for at least the first few days of the foreign trip. White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean Pierre will travel in her place.
Good afternoon from JBA.
President Biden is set to depart on his second foreign trip this afternoon - heading to Rome for the G20 and Glasgow for COP26.
Marine One touched down at 12:41 PM. Biden exited wearing a navy blazer and khakis, with aviators and no tie. He was with First Lady Jill Biden, in a black dress and jacket, with a colorful scarf.
He boarded without taking questions.
Details on travelers below.
Per the White House: Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, and NSC Senior Director for Europe Amanda Sloat will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Rome, Italy
The gaggle is tentatively supposed to come about an hour into the flight and should be played on 
.
We will be wheels up shortly.
From the WH: Traveling on Air Force One to Rome, Italy with the President and the First Lady:
Secretary of State Tony Blinken
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Mala Adiga, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Policy & Projects for the First Lady
Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor/Deputy NEC Director
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary, NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, NSC
Thomas Winslow, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of Staff
Michael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Asel Roberts, Acting Chief of Protocol of the United States
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Col. William (Chris) McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander
Mrs. Sarb Edmund, 89th Airlift Wing Senior/Training Protocol Specialist
Air Force One touched down at Rome-Fiumicino International Airport at 2:24 AM local time.
TVs on in the press cabin were tuned to CNN for part of the flight including for Speaker Pelosi's press conference.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan gaggled during the flight. No other visitors to the press cabin.
President Biden exited AF1 at 2:36 AM with First Lady Jill Biden. He wore a dark suit and blue tie and she is wearing a red dress and coat with red heels.
They paused to speak with officials lined up on the tarmac before getting in the motorcade.
From the White House:
Upon arrival in Rome, Italy the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Mr. Uberto Vanni d'Archirafi, Senior Official of the Diplomatic Protocol of the Italian Republic
Her Excellency Maria Angela Zappia, Ambassador of the Italian Republic to the United States
Mr. Thomas D. Smitham, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy to Italy
Mr. Patrick Connell, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy to the Holy See
Ms. Jennifer Harhigh, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Mission to the UN Agencies in Rome
At 2:44 AM we are rolling.
After a drive along the darkened highways and streets of Rome, including a glimpse of the Colosseum, the motorcade stopped at the US ambassador's residence at 3:35 AM.
Pool did not see President Biden. At 3:40 AM pool vans began moving again.
At 3:46 AM we have a lid. Good night.