A top priority for the Biden Administration since Day One has been to reopen schools safely and keep them open. The Administration has taken significant actions to get our students back in the classroom – and it is working, with more than 96% of school districts open for full-time in-person for all students this fall.
We know how to keep students safe in schools by taking the right steps to prevent or reduce transmission in schools—including getting staff and eligible students vaccinated, implementing universal indoor masking, maintaining physical distancing, improving ventilation, and performing regular screening testing of students and school staff. Schools should consistently implement science-based prevention strategies recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) so that they can remain open for in-person learning and maintain the health and safety of all students, staff, and families.
As part of President Biden's COVID-19 Action Plan announced in September, the Administration called on all schools to set up regular testing in schools for students, teachers, and staff consistent with CDC guidance. The Administration provided $10 billion in funding for COVID-19 screening testing for teachers, staff, and students in K-12 schools, in addition to the $130 billion provided to states and school districts that may also be used for testing. Screening testing is a critical strategy to identify positive cases of COVID-19 in students and staff and ensure K-12 schools can operate safely during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Administration has been assisting states and schools in implementing screening testing since awarding American Rescue Plan (ARP) funds to states last spring, and today, is announcing additional actions to help states, schools, and school districts establish screening testing programs in more schools:
: Starting November 2, ED, CDC, and The Rockefeller Foundation will host a learning network with twice weekly sessions through December aimed at helping schools set up screening testing programs. The series will feature experts from CDC, ED, and outside of the U.S. Government to help schools develop and execute a plan for screening testing with trusted partners. Building on existing engagement from CDC and ED in providing technical assistance to schools, this new series is designed to help schools no matter where they are in setting up testing programs – from those who are just starting, to those who are looking to sustain or expand participation in their existing programs. The series will launch on November 2, and more details can be found at 
 website.
Today, The Rockefeller Foundation released a new one-page start-up guide that schools can use to begin testing. This guide seeks to simplify the process by identifying key steps for schools to take in launching testing – and identifies resources available to help schools navigate the process. This includes connecting to a testing provider; learning about different testing options available; developing a plan and the team to administer testing; communicating with parents on consent and what the testing process will look like for their child; and planning for how to isolate individuals who test positive during school hours. The guide can be found at 
 website.