Pool Reports by 
, 
Dr. Jill Biden arrived at the Borghese Gallery at 6:06 p.m.
This was an unscheduled trip.
There's currently a Damien Hirst exhibition at the museum, where the British artist's modern pieces are interspersed among the classics.
As always, I'll be tossing photos in the Dropbox. Feel free to use for your coverage: >
More TK as she tours the galleries.
FLOTUS is casually dressed - wearing an olive jacket, black leather pants and the black over the knee boots she wore earlier. She has on a cream colored top. She has on a black mask and a blue scarf.
She's being guided through the museum by its director, Francesca Cappelletti. Pool is staging a room ahead of her at a time.
She's here while the museum is open, so tourists are walking around as FLOTUS comes through. Some have realized who she is and are saying "First Lady!"
"Is that all from one piece of marble?" FLOTUS asked about a female nude sculpture.
Much of the tour was inaudible.
In another room, which included some of Hirst's works, FLOTUS asked about some of the busts in the gallery that date back to the 18th century that are a unique brown color.
She also spent several minutes looking at a statue that was of two people and a three-headed dog.
Biden got to see what the museum guide called the "first Bernini," which is of two men and a cherub. She was then walked to another Bernini statue on display.
She marveled at the hieroglyphics in one room that also included a Hirst pharaoh piece.
In the next room she said "it's bright, right?" she said looking at "boy with a basket of fruit" by Caravaggio.
She then walked over to Hirst's coral sculptures.
Pool was pulled at 6:45 p.m.
Waiting for her departure.
More TK
FLOTUS exited the museum at 6:48 p.m. after being presented a gift from the gallery.
Pooler asked what she thought of the tour:
"What did you think?" she responded to pooler. (Who said it was beautiful.) "It took your breathe away didn't it?" she added.
Pooler asked, did you have fun with the spouses?
"Of course," she replied as she walked.
Her motorcade was rolling at 6:52 p.m. Pooler counted it was about 12 cars long.
If anyone needs the name of the nude statue, let me know and I can include it in another report.
That's all from me tonight - have a good one!
Your pooler had a misspelling in the FLOTUS quote: "It took your breath away, didn't it?" she said.
Additionally, the sculpture she asked about was Antonio Canova's Portrait of Paolina Borghese Bonaparte as Venus Victrix, which dates back to 1805-1808.
Thanks!