Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello
I'll be pooling today's event with the vice president and mayors on the infrastructure deal and BBB agenda. Ahead of the event, the White House passes along the following "On Background from a White House Official":
With President Biden announcing his Build Back Better Framework, Vice President Kamala Harris will host a meeting today with a group of mayors to discuss how the Administration's agenda will benefit communities across the country. During the meeting - which is virtual – the Vice President will discuss how the Build Back Better Framework and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will lower costs for families, cut taxes for parents, make historic investments in our Nation's infrastructure and public transit, and create good-paying jobs across the country. The group of mayors will share their thoughts on the how these investments would make a difference for their cities.
President Biden and Vice President Harris both began their careers as local elected officials, and the Biden-Harris Administration has worked with Democratic and Republican Mayors to help craft the Build Back Better Agenda.
The meeting will take place at 2:15pm EDT today. Participants include:


Working with President Biden, the Vice President is helping lead the Administration's effort to address challenges facing families through the Build Back Better Agenda. She continues with Members of Congress, meet with families, and participate in public events including:
Pool was led into the South Court Auditorium room where Vice President Harris will host the mayors. The event is still scheduled to start at 2:15 EDT.
The event will be livestreamed at the White House's livestream page 
 so I'll spare you my fast transcription.
This event started at 2:32 ET with the vice president live and Mayors Durkan (Seatt)e, Garcia (Long Beach, CA), Turner (Houston), Barnett (Rochester Hills, MI) and Jones (St. Louis) participating virtually.
Again, the remarks are being streamed live 
.
At 2:38 pm pool and other press were escorted out just as the discussion was getting underway. There was no opportunity to ask a question.