Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning all. I'm your WH pooler today. Feel free to ping with any questions, clarifications or other needs. My contact info is below.
At 11:30, POTUS provides an update on the COVID-19 response and the vaccination program.
At 2:15 POTUS has a bilateral meeting with His Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya
The press briefing is at 1 p.m.
The White House passes on this statement on the President's 11:30 speech:
From a White House official:
After the President receives a briefing from his COVID-19 response team, he will deliver an update on the progress the United States is making in its pandemic response. He will highlight that thanks to his "Path out of the Pandemic" plan and the administration's urgent push for vaccine requirements, the country is seeing a strong uptick in vaccinations, while cases and hospitalizations continue to decline. He will also highlight the ongoing work on boosters and ensuring our schools remain safe and open. Lastly, he will remind the American people that even with this strong progress, now is not the time to let up in our response.
The White House Press briefing 
, after the President's bilat.
Pool is gathered in the South Court auditorium, in front of a podium and a lectern with the seal of the President of the United States, backdropped by American flags and signs about how to find a vaccine by Internet or phone.
Speech is streamable from here: 
Statement from the White House:
After the President receives a briefing from his COVID-19 response team, he will deliver an update on the progress the United States is making in its pandemic response. He will highlight that thanks to his "Path out of the Pandemic" plan and the administration's urgent push for vaccine requirements, the country is seeing a strong uptick in vaccinations, while cases and hospitalizations continue to decline. He will also highlight the ongoing work on boosters and ensuring our schools remain safe and open. Lastly, he will remind the American people that even with this strong progress, now is not the time to let up in our response.
POTUS stopped speaking at 1 p.m. He did not respond to shouted questions.
Lunch lid until 2:15 p.m.
POTUS read from note cards in his lap and was seated next to His Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta, the president of the Republic of Kenya.
The president wore a dark blue suit with a diagonally striped tie. These are rush quotes. Please check against the transcript.
He said that the United States was sending 17 million doses of Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine to the African Union.
He also said the U.S. was exploring "what we can do around the Horn of Africa to extend security … And the fight against climate change."
The Kenyan President thanked Biden for "helping Kenya but also the rest of the continent access the vaccine" and "partnering strongly in the fight against terrorism globally."
He also said he was grateful to have the U.S. as a partner in the fight against climate change. "Our country, our continent is the least in terms of emitting, but pays the highest price."
Here is the news release from from Oct. 12: In an Oct. 12 news release, press secretary Jen Psaki said of the meeting: President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. will host President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya at the White House. The leaders will discuss the strong U.S.-Kenyan bilateral relationship and the need to bring transparency and accountability to domestic and international financial systems. They will also discuss efforts to defend democracy and human rights, advance peace and security, accelerate economic growth, and tackle climate change. The meeting will build on the leaders' phone call in February and on President Biden's commitment to the U.S. partnership with Africa based on principles of mutual respect and equality.
The White House passes on the list of attendees of the bilat with the Kenyan president.
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya:
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
T.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
T.H. Shanti Kalathil, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Democracy, NSC
T.H. Dana Banks, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Africa, NSC
T.H. Molly Phee, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs
His Excellency Uhuru M. Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya
Ambassador Raychelle A. Omamo, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Ms. Betty C. Maina, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development
T.H. Amos M. Kimunya, Leader of the Majority in the National Assembly
Ms. Ruth W. Kagia, Deputy Chief of Staff
Ambassador Johnson M. Weru, State Department of Trade and Enterprise Development
H.E. Lazarus O. Amayo, Ambassador of the Republic of Kenya to the United States
The briefing started at 3:42 p.m.
The briefing ended at 4:26 p.m.
The White House called a lid at 5:19. Good evening, everyone!
The White House passes on this background info about the President's 10/15 trip to Connecticut. (Pardon the late message. This came in after the lid)
.
 [journals.uchicago.edu]
 Provides child care subsidies to low- and middle-income Americans. The plan will allow most families to 
—and receive higher-quality care where workers are better compensated.
 Extends the enhancement of the tax credit provided in the American Rescue Plan to help families cover the cost of child and dependent care expenses—from child care to summer camp to after school and weekend care.
 Free, high-quality preschool for all 3- and 4-year-olds delivered in the setting of a parent's choice—whether in an eligible child care center, family child care provider, public school, Head Start, or other community provider. The child care provider the President is visiting also delivers preschool and would be able to benefit from this plan as w
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Pool was ushered to Oval office around 3:20 pm .President Biden welcomed Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and made a joke about allowing the US to stay at the Security council .
President Uhuru spoke in English. He highlighted the discussion that will take place on four areas of cooperation.
The Kenya delegation included :
His Excellency Uhuru M. Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya
Ambassador Raychelle A. Omamo, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Ms. Betty C. Maina, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development
T.H. Amos M. Kimunya, Leader of the Majority in the National Assembly
Ms. Ruth W. Kagia, Deputy Chief of Staff
Ambassador Johnson M. Weru, State Department of Trade and Enterprise Development
H.E. Lazarus O. Amayo, Ambassador of the Republic of Kenya to the United States
This is the first meeting between Biden and any African head of state although held virtually.
White House said earlier that both sides will discuss "efforts to defend democracy and human rights, advance peace and security, accelerate economic growth, and tackle climate change."
#Not Virtual as reported in title .