Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings, it's my pleasure to be your pooler this sneakily muggy Saturday morning. Pool started rolling to the Capitol for POTUS' remarks at the National Peace Officers' Memorial Service at 11:55 am.
Passing this on from the White House-
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to the Capitol:
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Michael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Mike Gwin, Director of Rapid Response
Feel free to ping me if you have any questions. You'll hear from me once we get to the Hill.
Pool arrived on Capitol grounds at 12:04 p.m and hustled to a riser mere steps away from the Capitol dome. I'll tweet out photos. The event will be live streamed on the White House website and on YouTube.
POTUS should be speaking momentarily.
Here's the link!
Passing on the event schedule — B
—
The President and the First Lady are escorted on stage by Jimmy Holderfield, National Secretary of the Fraternal Order of Police, and James Smallwood, National Treasurer of the Fraternal Order of Police
Advancement of the Colors by U.S. Capitol Police Host Agency
National Anthem, performed by Lieutenant Bryan Wolfe, Marion County Indiana Sheriff's Office
Invocation by Rick Snyder, Chaplain, National Fraternal Order of Police
Welcoming remarks by Glenda Lehmann, President, Grand Lodge Fraternal Order of Police Auxiliary
Musical tribute by Kellie Pickler, Country Recording Artist
James Smallwood, National Treasurer of the Fraternal Order of Police, introduces the President
The President deliver remarks
The President and the First Lady, escorted by Jimmy Holderfield, National Secretary of the Fraternal Order of Police, and James Smallwood, National Treasurer of the National Fraternal Order of Police, pin a flower on the memorial wreath
After a sprightly jog to the pool vans, pool began rolling at 1:06 pm.
Here's who was sitting w POTUS-
Major General William J. Walker, Sergeant at Arms, U.S. House of Representatives
Jeffrey R. Tyler, Deputy Director, U.S. Marshals Service
Marvin G. Richardson, Acting Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives
Anne Milgram, Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration
James M. Murray, Director, U.S. Secret Service
Christopher Wray, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security
The First Lady
The President
Jimmy Holderfield, National Secretary, Fraternal Order of Police
James Smallwood, National Treasurer, Fraternal Order of Police
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, U.S. House of Representatives
Will Kinzel, Vice President of Government Affairs, Molson Coors
J. Thomas Manger, Chief of Police, U.S. Capitol Police
Troy A. Miller, Acting Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Patricia Carruth, National President, Concerns of Police Survivors (C.O.P.S.)
Marcia Ferranto, CEO, National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund
J. Brett Blanton, Architect of the Capitol
Lt. General Karen Gibson, Sergeant at Arms, U.S. Senate
Pool returned to White House at 1:10 p.m! We have a lunch (or as this pooler insists, brunch kid) until 5 p.m. See you then!
Hello again! Your pool is back, with significantly more rain. Pool spotted First Lady Jill Biden enter the motorcade but we did not see the President. Pool began rolling to an undisclosed location at 5:24 pm. But your pool - astute followers of the presidents' weekend schedule - have a few guesses.
Surprise. The President and the First Lady are attending mass at Holy Trinity Catholic Church. The motorcade arrived at 5:36 pm. Pool briefly spotted POTUS entering the church wearing a blue suit. Pool is now holding in vans.
Pool spotted POTUS leaving church at 6:23 pm, he waved at the pool but did not come over to take questions. We are now rolling, destination unknown.
Motorcade arrived at the Georgetown waterfront at 6:30 p.m and spotted POTUS and FLOTUS entering high end seafood restaurant Fiola Mare for a date night! Pool is holding in vans.
POTUS and FLOTUS left Fiola Mare at 7:59 pm and pool is now rolling en route to the White House.
Another Fiola Mare patron approached the pool prior to POTUS’ departure and said that he was eating "the lobster" but your pooler is skeptical, and that claim remains unverified. If I have an update on his meal, I will send it forward. But my bet is on the bolognese.
Aaaaand we have a photo/travel lid at 8:10 pm. It's been a pleasure being your pooler today. Have a wonderful and safe weekend! - B