Supply chain issues have been a key challenge coming out of this unprecedented economic crisis resulting from this pandemic. For months, the Biden-Harris Administration has been engaged in a whole-of-government response, led by the Secretaries of Commerce, Transportation, and Agriculture.
In June, the White House launched the 
 to address short-term supply chain bottlenecks as the economy rapidly reopens, spurred by the Administration's historic vaccination and economic relief efforts.
In August, the White House 
 John Porcari as the White House Port Envoy to the task force. Porcari is a nationally recognized public and private sector infrastructure leader, who has delivered on some of America's most challenging projects and driven the adoption of equitable, community-serving infrastructure policies and projects at the local, state and federal levels.
In a Fox Business interview, Port of Los Angeles Executive Director Gene Seroka 
 the Administration's response to ports on Wednesday October 6, stating that "we've got all hands on deck from the Administration" while highlighting the Port's recent expansion of hours of operation:
The Port of Los Angeles 
 this week that it has succeeded in reducing dwell time for rail cargo from a peak of more than 13 days to 4.4 days after working with International Longshore and Warehouse Union workers, terminal operators, and railroads.
Last week, USDA 
 a $3 billion investment through the Commodity and Credit Corporation (CCC). These investments include targeted assistance to deal with supply chain disruptions including $500 million to provide relief from agricultural market disruption such as transportation challenges and the availability of certain materials and $1.5 billion to provide schools with assistance to respond to food supply chain disruptions that affect school meals.
"The coronavirus pandemic has impacted every stage of our food supply chain, from commodity production through processing and delivery," Vilsack said in a statement.
And this week, USDA 
 $100 million in funding from the American Rescue Plan to leverage hundreds of millions more in lending to expand meat and poultry processing capacity and finance other food supply chain infrastructure.
This builds on top of several investments USDA has announced to expand the agricultural production supply side while increasing competition, such as 
 in American Rescue Plan funds to expand meat and poultry processing capacity and another more than $150 million for existing small and very small processing facilities to help them weather COVID.
Last week, the Commerce Department 
 a Microelectronics Early Alert System for COVID-related shocks to the semiconductor supply chain. The new system is up and running and already receiving input from companies.
And at a September convening of semiconductor industry participants, the Commerce Department 
 of a Request for Information (RFI) that is asking all parts of the supply chain – producers, consumers, and intermediaries – to voluntarily share information about inventories, demand, and delivery dynamics. This will advance Commerce's effort to improve transparency, trust, and communication across the supply chain. The goal of is to understand and quantify where bottlenecks may exist, helping provide the private sector with the information they need to address the shortage. Firms have 45 days to reply to the survey.