Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington.
The motorcade left president Biden's residence at 10.43 AM
The pool bus joined up, we are rolling. Destination TBD.
After an uneventful ride through the countryside that saw us cross the border into Pennsylvania, the pool bus peeled off from the motorcade at 11.06, not far from the Kennett Square Golf and Country Club in Kennett Square, PA.
The press bus is now rolling.
More details as soon as I get them.
The White House shares this:
The President and the First Lady are attending a small, family wedding at the home of Valerie and Jack Owens. Their nephew, Cuffe Owens, is marrying Meghan O'Toole King.
The pool bus joined up again with the president's motorcade at 1.22 PM, next to the Kennett Square Golf and Country Club. We are now rolling.
As a reminder, the President is expected to travel back to the White House later this afternoon. He will depart from Delaware Air National Guard Base.
The motorcade reached the president's residence in Wilmington at 1.42 pm.
Pool is holding in the bus nearby.
President Biden's motorcade left his residence in Wilmington at 3.01 PM. We are now en route to Delaware Air National Guard base.
The motorcade reached DANG at 3.09 PM.
FLOTUS boarded Marine One at 3.12 PM, wearing a blue and white print dress, and then the president, in a dark suit.
He briefly saluted before boarding.
M1 took off at 3.18 PM.
Now handing over to the in-town pool.
Have a great rest of your day.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House.
The White House says that President Biden's departure from Wilmington, Delaware has been moved up by half an hour. Previously it had been scheduled for 3:25 PM.
Currently there is nothing else on his public schedule for the day.
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of President Biden's arrival.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 4:03 PM. President Biden exited wearing a blue suit and tie. He was accompanied by First Lady Jill Biden, wearing a light blue print dress and yellow heels, and his granddaughter Naomi Biden.
The President did not stop to speak to reporters. He entered the White House at 4:07 PM.
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 4:10 PM.
Also, per the White House, also traveling on Marine One were:
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Have a good night.