Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your pooler for the VP's event. She'll be speaking at the National Congress of American Indians' 79th Annual Convention.
Your pooler has been COVID tested and is gathering ahead of the remarks. Passing along some background from the White House:
ON BACKGROUND –
Today the Vice President is speaking at the National Congress of American Indians' 78th Annual Convention, where she will speak to the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to honoring tribal sovereignty and investing in Indian Country, including through the President's Budget, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, the Build Back Better Agenda, and the American Rescue Plan. The Vice President will also announce that the Administration will be renegotiating the Department of Interior 477 MOU with full participation of Tribes with 477 plans.


Working with President Biden, the Vice President has helped lead the Administration's effort to support Indian Country and work with Native American and Alaska Native communities.
Prior to the Administration, the Vice President was a committed partner to Tribal and Native communities.

Pool is in South Court Auditorium as of 11:22, where there is virtually no signal. Apologies if pool reports are delayed due to service.
There's a podium set up at the center of the stage with a glass of water, and the background reads "National Congress of American Indians 78th Annual Convention."
Event still on schedule as far as your pooler knows. The remarks are virtual and available at WhiteHouse.gov/Live.
VP took the stage at 11:41am, masked and with a quick wave. She began speaking at 11:42am after taking her mask off.
Reminder, the event is live-streamed. Below are some highlights:
"That is not the whole story. That has never been the whole story. Those explorers ushered in wave of devastation for tribal nations," VP said regarding the voyage to America. She called it a "shameful past."
VP discussed Native American voters being "systematically denied" access to voting and called for voting rights.
VP noted Native Americans are more likely to be unemployed and live in poverty. She called it "persistent inequity" and "persistent injustice."
"We right now have a chance to change things, to improve things, to be better ... because I believe that we are in the beginning of a new era."
VP noted the efforts being made in passing the infrastructure bill and highlighted the "important opportunity to strengthen Indian country" that it presents. She noted the "millions in good union jobs" it would create.
She talked about the bill addressing climate change and said it will have a "significant impact on Indian country."
It would be the largest investment in Indian country in our history, VP says.
She also announced the administration is reopening our memorandum of agreement on the 477 program, which the VP described as giving tribes the power to make decisions on delivering and integrating federal services.
VP ended her remarks with a short story and called on viewers to protect the future "for generations to come." Her remarks ended at 11:49am and she began walking away. She stopped quickly when another virtual speaker thanked her and then officially left the stage at 11:50am.
As usual, check livestream for full quotes.
Pool was escorted out of the auditorium and back to cell phone service at 11:53am. That's all from me for today — please ping me with any questions.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hi everyone,
I'll be your pooler for the VP's second event of the day.
The VP will meet with Yair Lapid, Israel's alternate Prime minister & Foreign Minister.
The meeting is scheduled for 3:45pm in the ceremonial office.
WH passes this along:
US delegation
VPOTUS
1. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President
2. Mike Fuchs, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff to the Vice President
3. Phil Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
4. Yael Lempert, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs
5. Julie Sawyer, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security Council
6. Chris Backemeyer, Special Advisor to the Vice President for Near Eastern Affairs
His Excellency Yair Lapid, Alternate Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Israel
1. Mr. Alon Ushpiz, Director General
2. Ms. Gil Haushner, Chief of Staff to the Foreign Minister
3. Mr. Yair Zivan, Senior Advisor, Director of Policy
4. Brigadier General (Ret.) Michael Herzog, Senior Advisor to the Foreign Minister
5. Mr. David Yitshak Roet, Deputy Director General and Head of North America Division
6. Mr. Benjamin Krasna, Deputy Chief of Mission, Embassy of Israel
Pool was brought into the room when the delegation was already seated around the table with the VP and Yair Lapid sitting across from each other surrounded by their respective delegations.
The VP started speaking at 3:48pm
She said this meeting was another occasion to "reaffirm the strength & endurance of the relationship between the US & Israel."
She said they would talk about ways to strengthen the US' commitment to "ensure the security of the people of Israel."
She added they would also discuss other issues including:
-"Shared prosperity for the people of our countries"
-"peace & security & prosperity for palestinians as well as Israelis"
-"regional challenges we face & our shared concern as it relates to Iran, to our support for the Abraham Accords, and Israel's relationship with its neighbors."
FM Lapid started speaking 3:50pm
"Dialogue between us is always based on facts"
He spoke about the importance of "Strengthening the bi-partisan relations with the next generation"
he said "this generation is not only preoccupied with war and conflict" but also other crises, including "questions of identity"
"In order to build this friendship for the next 100 years we need to explore those issues"
Pool spray wrapped up at 3:52pm and we were ushered out of the room.
That's all from me. Enjoy the rest of your day!