Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, pool is en route to the White House for testing ahead of our 12:00pm call time. Feel free to reach out directly with any questions.
The COVID team will have a briefing at 11:00am, and press secretary Jen Psaki will brief reporters at 1:00pm.
POTUS has two closed press events today, a bill signing for H.R. 2278 at 11:15am and a meeting with supply chain officials and stakeholders at 1:45pm. He will deliver televised remarks on the subject after the meeting, tentatively scheduled for 2:20pm.
Ahead of the President's meeting on global transportation supply chain bottlenecks, senior administration officials and stakeholders will participate in a virtual roundtable to discuss collective efforts to address global transportation supply chain bottlenecks. Attendees include:
[
]
Reminder that you can stream the briefing here: 
... at 1:35pm.
Stream: 
... at 2:05pm
Pool has not been called to gather yet, but pool passes along the following list of attendees:
In attendance for the President's remarks:
Reminder that you can stream POTUS' remarks here: 
... as of 2:43pm--
... at 2:56pm
Quick note: Secretary Buttigieg thanked pool for congratulations on his newborns, said they were doing fine, then laughed when pool followed up by clarifying the question was about how he and his husband were doing now that they have kids.
POTUS entered the East Room at 2:58pm and began speaking immediately
Reminder of the additional attendees on top of pool and pre-credentialed media
In attendance for the President's remarks:
POTUS wrapped his remarks at 3:10pm and departed without answering questions from press about guaranteeing delivery times for holiday packages, and a Cabinet meeting Tuesday night to address the energy crisis, plans for the fed, and worker safety.
One additional note... before Biden entered, Buttigieg told the pool he was very excited for Star Trek star William Shatner's space flight, adding that he's a huge Trekkie
Pool made a mistake in copy pasting the attendees list for POTUS' remarks (report #9).
Full list below:
In attendance for the President's remarks:
... called at 3:33pm. Have a great Wednesday, y'all.