Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from the FAA operations center at Atlantic City International Airport, where we are awaiting the arrival of Vice President Kamala Harris.

I will be the print pooler today.

Harris will address the 113th NAACP national convention at 11:30 p.m. EDT and then hold a roundtable at 1:05 p.m. with several New Jersey officials, including Lt. Gov. Sheila Oliver and NJ state Senate Majority Leader Teresa Ruiz, as well as other supporters of abortion rights.

Those are the only two events on her schedule.

The speech will be carried live on 
 but I will send color.

She is scheduled to depart AC Airport at 2:50 pm EDT for Washington.


Greeters for arrival:

- Maj. Guy Evertson, Alternate Director Flight Line Protocol, C-32A Pilot

- Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 


Those were the greeters at Andrews. We don't have the Atlantic City greeters yet.


AF2 landed at the Atlantic City Airport. We are rolling to the Atlantic City convention center.

And the speech is at 11:30 a.m., not p.m.


At the airport, the VP was greeted by Atlantic City Mayor Marty Small. They chatted for a few minutes before she got into the motorcade.




 






We are in the convention center. Waiting for the VP to speak.


The vice president will be introduced by NAACP vice chair Karen Boykin-Towns.

We are in the convention center waiting for her speech.


She emerged to a long and sustained standing ovation. Lots of audience members snapping pictures and taking video on their phones.

Speech is being livestreamed.


Ends to standing ovation. Largest applause lines were voting rights, getting two more Senate Democrats to end filibuster and Supreme Court Justice Jackson.

Some in the audience held up signs, "This is power."

Next up is the abortion rights roundtable. Pool will hold until then.


Reporters were ushered into the room where the roundtable was being held. Two dozen people were arranged in a horseshoe shape, with the VP at the top.

Quotes later.


After hearing from the VP and others, the press was escorted out of the room.

Some quick Harris quotes with more to come. Some were similar to her address to the NAACP conference earlier.

"The Supreme Court took.an established constitutional right from the people."

"This is a national health care crisis. Every woman should be able to make decisions amount their bodies without government interference."

"What we are seeing are extremist so-called leaders who are passing laws with the intention of criminalizing health care providers and punishing women."

"Certain decisions are not the government's to make."

"We are demanding that the United States Congress codify Roe."

One other note: NJ Lt. Gov. Sheila Oliver could not make the roundtable.

More to come. On the move again. We have boarded the press van for the trip back to Atlantic City airport.


From VP:

Harris said the fight for abortion rights was not only a national one but a state one as well. She said she was holding a roundtable in NJ because of its leadership on the issue. The state, she said, was doing "model work."

On the midterms, she said, "These elections will matter at every level."

She warned that the Dobbs decision meant the court would go after contraception and same-sex marriage later.

"It has wide-ranging impact," she said. "We must understand what is at stake for all of us."

Several New Jersey officials also spoke before the press was escorted out. I will send them later. We are in the motorcade driving to the airport.


The VP boarded Air Force Two and the plane taxied along the runway before taking off for the trip back to JBA, ending her third trip to New Jersey as vice president.

I will file one more pool report with the additional roundtable quotes before I call it a day.


Other speakers who followed VP Harris at the abortion rights roundtable



"The Dobbs decision was an egregiously wrong decision....It's also a decision that's going to disproportionately affect women of color."

Discussed New Jersey's new laws codifying abortion rights and the new state budget that included $50 million for reproductive health services, including additional security for abortion clinics.

He said the state has a strike force to go after those who would interfere with the right to abortion.



She described taking her daughter into the voting booth in 2016 but noted that since then "the trajectory of her life is changing as a woman in this country."

"It is unfathomable that she has less rights in this country than her grandmother."



"We thought this was settled 50 years ago. We marched on the street against the Vietnam War and for choice."



Her clinics already are starting to see women from other states seeking abortions.



"This moment represents a resounding call to action."


On background from a White House official:

Vice President Harris took the motorcade back to her residence due to a bad weather call.

And that's a wrap. We can do this again on Thursday when I am the print pool reporter for President Biden.