Pool Reports by 
, 




VP landed at 10:30 am. at an air filed field at the Philadelphia International Airport on an extremely muggy summer morning. She was greeted by Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney.

After a brief conversation between the two, motorcade departed for first stop –the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters in Philadelphia’s Spring Garden neighborhood – by 10:42 a.m.


Background on today's visit from the White House





 


 


 




VP’s motorcade arrived at the the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of Carpenters union hall in Philadelphia’s Spring Garden neighborhood at 11:05 a.m. to a crowd of onlookers from the surrounding residential neighborhood snapping photos on their phones.

Here, she will be participating shortly with in a roundtable discussion on abortion rights with roughly 40 state lawmakers as well as members of Congress, per White House.

Meeting room currently closed to press to press, but pool spray to follow at roughly 11:45. Per White House, the Vice President will convey the Administration’s commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, including abortion access and the encourage the legislators to continue fighting to protect reproductive rights in Pennsylvania.

Speakers, per White House, include:

 Earlier this month, Republican lawmakers in Harrisburg advanced a proposed constitutional amendment that would explicitly state that the state constitution does not guarantee any rights related to abortion. It would need to pass a second legislative session and a statewide public vote in order to pass.


In pool spray in advance of discussion w/ roughly 40 state lawmakers, members of PA's congressional delegation and other leaders, VP emphasized the administration's commitment to codify the protections formerly provided by 
into law – not only at the federal level, but also at state legislatures.

She thanked those gathered as well as some not present – including PA Gov. Tom Wolf and PA Attorney General Josh Shapiro -- for their efforts on that front so far: "I know you're fighting against great odds, and you're undeterred and you're standing in defense of these most fundamental rights."

She also linked the Supreme Court's decision in 
 to efforts to restrict voting rights: "Where you're seeing efforts to restrict a woman's rights to make decisions about their own body, that same source is trying to restrict voting rights. … The source of a lot of this is an agenda to restrict the rights of the Amercan people."

VP also addressed importance of state's upcoming US Senate race pitting Democrat nominee John Fetterman against GOP nominee Mehmet Oz, stressing the administration's ability to move its agenda through Congress hangs on the outcome of this and other Senate races.

"The Senate race here in Pennsylvania is directly connected," she said. "The president and I have been very clear, of all these senate races, we need two more. Pennsylvania can help contribute that."

Those who addressed the VP during pool spray included:
, PA House Minority Leader 
· 
D-PA-3
· 
D-PA-5
· 
D-PA-4
· 
Women's Health Caucus Co-Chair
· 
Senate Democrats Caucus Secretary
· 
, Women's Health Caucus Co-Chair 
· 
Senate Democrats Chair of the Policy Committee

Many of those in attendance raised the issue of the proposed constitutional amendment Pennsylvania Republicans moved through the General Assembly on June 8. It would change the text of the document to explicitly say the state constitution does not provide any rights related to abortion.

Daley, one to the state reps to address the VP, said:"Republican leaders are saying this is not a ban – but it sure does open the door for a ban. "

The panel discussion now continuing, closed to press, for roughly next 40 minutes.


VP left the Philadelphia office of the Eastern Atlantic States Regional Council of 
En route to next stop, which is listed as TBA on schedule. VP staff has declined to say where that stop will be or the purpose of the trip – only that it’s about 10 min away from our current location.


VP has arrived at the Samuel Staten Jr. Building of the Laborer's District Council on North Broad Street, where she is now making a surprise visit at a campaign stop for Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro, the current Democratic nominee for Pennsylvania governor. They are addressing members of "All In Pennsylvania," a Democratic organizing group supporting Shapiro and Fetterman.


VP departed the Samuel Staten Jr. Building Laborer’s District Council training center in N. Philly at 1:47.

While there, she addressed campaign volunteers for All-In Pennsylvania, a Democratic organizing group working on behalf of Josh Shapiro, the Democratic nominee for Pennsylvania governor, and John Fetterman, the party’s U.S. Sen. Candidate.

To a room of cheering volunteers, she stressed the importance of their work in ensuring Democratic victories in the governor, U.S. Senate, and state legislature races.


VP arrived back at Philadelphia International Airport at 2 pm and reboarded plane after briefly pausing for for photos on tarmac with advance staff.