Pool Reports by 
, 




Good evening from the White House, where we have a good weather call.

Air Force One is running ahead of schedule, so the gather time is now 11:50 for President Biden's open-press South Lawn arrival. 


Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 11:52.

President Biden walked into the residence at 11:56 after stopping to take a few questions, including about his MBS fist bump, the Saudi foreign minister saying he didn't hear Biden accuse the crown prince of Khashoggi's murder and clemency for marijuana prisoners.

I'll send a full transcript momentarily. 


Here's the Q&A from President Biden's arrival on the South Lawn tonight:

The Saudi foreign minister says he didn't hear you accuse the crown prince of Khashoggi's murder. Is he telling the truth?

No.

Do you regret the fist bump, Mr. President?

Why don't you guys talk about something that matters? I'm happy to answer a question that matters.

Will inflation go down from here, Mr. President?

I'm hoping. We'll know in the next few [inaudible, we think he said weeks].

President Biden, will you be honoring your campaign pledge to release all of the marijuana inmates in prison?

I don't think anyone should be in prison for the use of marijuana. We are working on the [inaudible, we think he said time].

Apologies for the delay, some of the audio was difficult to discern. 


We have a travel lid until 10 am.

And I tweeted a video of President Biden's lawn remarks, if anyone needs it 
 


?The White House extended our lid until 4 pm.


Good evening from the White House driveway.

The presidential motorcade began rolling at 5:23 to an undisclosed location. Journalists could see just a glimpse of President Biden from our press pool van.


The motorcade pulled up to Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Georgetown at 5:33 after an uneventful ride.

President Biden walked inside moments later.


President Biden walked out of church at 6:30. He did not stop for questions.

The motorcade was rolling again at 6:31.


?The motorcade entered the White House grounds at 6:38 and came to a stop at the residence one minute later.

President Biden remained in his SUV for a bit before walking into the White House at 6:41.

And we have a travel/photo lid.