Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings on another sunny day in Washington.
The schedule has a press briefing with Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at 1.45pm, then POTUS signing into law nine bipartisan bills that honor and improve care for veterans at 2.45pm.
The White House sent out the Official Delegation List for the Ninth Summit of the Americas, which is copied below (it is not final and may be subject to change).
David
OFFICIAL SUMMIT DELEGATIONS
 


JOINT SUMMIT WORKING GROUP


 


OBSERVER DELEGATIONS


 


From the White House:
'The President will sign the following bills this afternoon:
From the White House:
'This morning, the President will meet with Senator Chris Murphy (CT) to discuss ongoing negotiations in the Senate on gun reform.'
From the White House:
'Two notes:
The President's meeting with Senator Murphy began at 11:31 AM and ended at 12:10 PM.
Matthew McConaughey, a native of Uvalde, father, and gun owner, will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at today's press briefing to deliver remarks.'
We have a two minute warning for the press briefing. There are more journalists standing in the aisles than usual in anticipation of Matthew McConaughey's remarks but not on the scale of BTS-mania.
Livestream will be here:
The White House press briefing started at 2.25pm. Actor Matthew McConaughey, wearing a dark jacket and white shirt (no tie), is standing behind Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, who said McConaughey met "briefly" with POTUS a few minutes ago.
Livestream here:
After impassioned remarks about gun safety and a plea for unity, actor Matthew McConaughey left the briefing room at 2.48pm and did not take questions.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre then noted that POTUS's bill signing event is running "a few minutes" late. Latest word to pool and pre-credentialed media is to wait for now and expect to gather after the briefing.
The briefing ended at 3.01pm. Pool has now gathered in the state dining room, which is crowded, for POTUS's bill signings.
Livestream here:
From the White House:
'The press briefing will resume when the President's event ends.'
And regarding the imminent bill signings:
'Speaking Program:
Joining the President for the signing of Bills S. 1872, S. 1760, S. 2514, S. 3527, S. 2687, S. 4089, S. 4119, S. 2533, S. 2102:
Wearing a dark blue suit, white shirt and red tie, POTUS entered the State Dining Room a step behind Denis McDonough, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, at 3.14pm. POTUS smiled as he walked over to greet someone (invisible to the pool) on the front row.
Secretary McDonough made brief remarks and introduced POTUS at 3.17pm. There was applause. "It's good to see you all," POTUS began. He will soon sign nine separate bills.
Livestream here:
POTUS finished speaking at 3.27pm then sat at a small table and signed nine bills relating to veterans. Senators Susan Collins, Joe Manchin and Jon Tester stood directly behind him as he signed, mostly in silence, then there was applause. POTUS said: "Thank you, all." Music began to play.
POTUS did not respond to shouted questions about gun safety but continued to mingle with guests at the bill signing event for about 20 minutes. Reporters made another attempt at questions but POTUS left the room at 3.52pm.
We have had a two minute warning for press briefing part two.
Livestream here:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre returned at 4.11pm to a briefing room that has a few more empty seats than usual.
She began: "I am back by popular demand... Sorry about that. There are times when briefings get delayed for reasons beyond our control."
Livestream here:
Part two of the press briefing ended at 4.37pm.
A travel/ photo lid was called at 4.51pm.