The Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new investments from the American Rescue Plan to help provide every American with access to affordable, high-speed internet. The American Rescue Plan funding is in addition to the $65 billion investment in high-speed Internet access in the 
 and 
 to lower the cost of high-speed internet for tens of millions of American families. These investments will bring down costs for families, help small businesses, and boost education for America's kids. Affordable, high-speed internet connects Americans to critical services and expands economic opportunities to every community. The American Rescue Plan has already spent or committed more than $25 billion to invest in affordable high-speed internet and connectivity.
: Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing 
—like broadband infrastructure expansion—that enable work, education, and health monitoring. These first awards, totaling more than a half a billion dollars, will make 
 to reliable internet service at download and upload speeds of at least 100 Mbps. Broadband infrastructure projects supported by Capital Project Funds must:
 by requiring service that meets or exceeds speeds of 100 Mbps download and 100 Mbps upload symmetrical upon project completion wherever practicable; 
, particularly in rural and remote areas; and
 by requiring all service providers to participate in the Federal Communications Commission's new 
 to ensure that households can afford the broadband they need for work, school, healthcare, and more by providing a discount of up to $30 per month (up to $75/month on Tribal lands) and by encouraging states to further require that services provided by a Capital Projects Fund-funded Broadband Infrastructure Projects include at least one low-cost high-speed option. First four awards go to following states:
 
 
: In addition to the $10 billion Capital Projects Fund, the American Rescue Plan provided state, local, territorial, and Tribal governments with critical resources to support a response to and recovery from the COVID-19 public health emergency—including investments in broadband infrastructure needed to connect their communities to work, education, health care, and civic opportunities available online.
With Fiscal Recovery Funds resources already in hand, many communities have already started making progress towards significantly expanding access to reliable, high-speed internet. To date, 
.
Examples of eight states and eight localities committing Fiscal Recovery Funds to improve access to reliable, high-speed internet:
:
:
 
 
The American Rescue Plan's $7.2 billion Emergency Connectivity Fund is helping schools and libraries provide the tools and services their communities need for remote learning during the pandemic, helping millions of students and closing the Homework Gap for those students who lack necessary Internet access or the devices they need to connect to classrooms.
The Emergency Connectivity Fund provides funding to schools and libraries for the reasonable costs of eligible equipment and services that can be provided to students, teachers, and library patrons who lack connected devices, such as laptop or tablet computers, and/or lack broadband access during the pandemic.
The 
. In May of 2022, following the closure of the program's final planned funding application window, the Federal Communication Commission announced that it would prioritize remaining funds to schools and libraries with the greatest need, with a preference for schools and libraries located in rural areas.