Ahead of a vote in the U.S. Senate, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo led a series of White House Regional Press Calls to underscore the need for swift passage of the Bipartisan Innovation Act – critical legislation that would boost domestic semiconductor production, create thousands of jobs, lower costs, and strengthen our national security.

During the calls, Secretary Raimondo stressed the importance of the legislation to our economic and national security and outlined the consequences of further delays by Congress: "If the U.S. doesn't act now, we will fall further behind in our global semiconductor production and jeopardize our technological and military advantage…. Semiconductors are unique in their importance. They underpin every single technology. They're necessary to make every single piece of advanced military equipment, and the reality is the United States is overly dependent on foreign countries for our supply of chips, which makes us incredibly vulnerable."

Read below for a round-up of the local coverage:






U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo told reporters during a White House regional press call Monday that investments in the bill could spur manufacturing and strengthen supply chains in Idaho and Texas. The bill includes $52 billion in manufacturing and research initiatives over the next 5-10 years. "Idaho has a lot to lose by this not passing this week," Raimondo said. Without the incentives, the nation could fall further behind in global semiconductor production, while countries including South Korea, Japan, Germany and France compete for manufacturing contracts, Raimondo said. 


While the comments of Gelsinger and Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo were not new, the tone was stronger as both said time has run out for Congress to act. Otherwise, Intel and other chipmakers will be forced to look overseas for their investments.


 She said South Korea, Japan and countries in Europe are already offering incentives to locate chip companies within their borders. "The reality is, our reliance upon other countries for semiconductor chips leaves us vulnerable," said Raimondo. "If Congress fails to pass this in the next couple of weeks, China wins and America loses."

Biden administration officials urged Democrats and Republicans Monday to come together on a bill they said was critical to getting more semiconductor plants built in the United States, including proposed projects by Samsung and Texas Instruments in Texas…. 


Biden administration officials also have been urging lawmakers to resolve their differences and pass the incentives in the name of national security…. 
She described the situation as an emergency that needs to be addressed immediately, because companies can't wait any longer to decide where to locate their operations.


In a Monday call with reporters from Texas and Idaho, U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo called on Congress to pass a bill designed to encourage companies to expand and build semiconductors manufacturing facilities in the United States. The push from the White House comes amid a global shortage of semiconductors, the computer chips that operate everything from your laptop to your car. Raimondo said Texas and Idaho are well-positioned to see expansions and new facilities from semiconductor companies, but said the bill could make or break Texas' ability to continue expanding its semiconductor industry. 
and emphasized increased semiconductor manufacturing in the United States is crucial for economic security, job creation, and national security.

"If the U.S. doesn't act now, we will fall further behind in our global semiconductor production and jeopardize our technological and military advantage," Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo said Monday during a media call organized by the White House. "Semiconductors are unique in their importance. They underpin every single technology. They're necessary to make every single piece of advanced military equipment, and the reality is the United States is overly dependent on foreign countries for our supply of chips, which makes us incredibly vulnerable." 
Raimondo, a member of President Joe Biden's cabinet, said Idaho and Texas are "at the forefront of the American effort to build more semiconductors," and she said Republican Senators Mike Crapo of Idaho and John Cornyn of Texas are leading the charge on what's been called CHIPS for America legislation. "We know that these companies that are in your states have offers right now from other countries to expand there. We know that they'll take those offers if Congress doesn't do its job this week and pass this CHIPS Act," she said.

On a call with reporters from Idaho and Texas, Raimondo said both states have major deals in the works for new semiconductor manufacturing plants if the CHIPS act passes, noting both states "have a lot to gain and the most to lose" depending on the outcome of Congress's expected Tuesday vote. 
"The United States is overly dependent on foreign companies for our supply of chips which makes us incredibly vulnerable," Raimondo told reporters. "All you have to do is look at what's happening in Russia right now. You're literally seeing Russian military equipment falling out of the sky because it doesn't work because it has chips in that equipment Russians have taken from fridges and dishwashers to put in the military equipment. That could be us."

The United States could soon spend billions of dollars on semiconductor manufacturing. Lawmakers are weighing legislation to invest in the industry in ways that could have impacts on the economy and national security. Congress is working on a deal to spend more than $50 billion in financial incentives for companies to build semiconductor plants
If lawmakers don't pass something soon, there's concern the U.S. will lose out entirely.