First Lady Jill Biden and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona will embark on a tour across the country to highlight how President Biden's American Rescue Plan (ARP) is supporting students in getting caught up through summer learning programs. The First Lady and Secretary Cardona will travel to summer learning and enrichment programs in Connecticut, Michigan, and Georgia, that use funding from the ARP to address the disproportionate impact of the pandemic on students’ academic and mental health needs. These summer learning and enrichment programs work to ensure students have access to academic and mental health resources over the summer, and are ready to succeed when they return to school.
Across the country, communities are using President Biden's American Rescue Plan funds to expand summer learning opportunities and help students recover. President Biden’s American Rescue Plan provided an historic $122 billion in funding to help schools safely reopen and stay open, and address student learning loss and mental health needs.
On 
, at 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will arrive at Tweed-New Haven Airport in New Haven, Connecticut. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will visit a Horizons National summer learning program, held at Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, CT, serving elementary students from local public schools. Horizons National is a nonprofit providing summer learning experiences across 20 states. This event will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will arrive at Detroit International Airport in Detroit, Michigan. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
On Thursday, July 21, at 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will visit a Detroit Public Schools Community District summer learning program, held at Schulze Academy for Technology and Arts in Detroit, MI, serving kindergarten through 8th grade students from the school district. This visit will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will arrive at Athens-Ben Epps Airport in Athens, Georgia. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
At 
, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will visit a Horizons National summer learning program, held at the University of Georgia in Athens, GA, serving students from Barnett Shoals Elementary School. This event will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Tuesday 7/19 at 5:00 PM ET.
**
.**