Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool, once again COVID-tested, assembled and was driven to the Gordon Pond parking lot at Cape Henlopen, close to the Biden residence neighborhood. Pool is being swept as we await presidential bike riding.
The president passed by the pool on his way north to the Gordons Pond trail, stopped to talk to the media for two minutes, advising the hundreds outside the WH protesting the Dobbs decision to "keep protesting, keep making your point."
Asked if he is considering declaring a public health emergency regarding abortion access, Biden said he is asking his staff to see "whether I have the authority" and what the impacts would be.
He pointed as he came to a stop that he had removed the toe clips on his bike.
Fuller quotes coming ASAP.
The president spoke to the pool for just over two minutes, starting at 1112.
His message to women protesting the Dobbs decision:
"Keep protesting. Keep making your point. It's critically important. We can do a lot of things to accommodate the rights of women. In the meantime, fundamentally, the only way to change this is to have a national law that reinstates Roe v Wade."
He said he could do come things to help women access abortion, such as the ability to cross state lines and protecting private information, but ultimately a law was necessary.
"As president I don't have the authority to say that we're going to reinstate Roe V Wade as the law of the land. "
"My ultimate goal is to reinstate Roe v wade as a national law by passing a law through the United States Congress and I'll sign it."
The president was wearing a blue shirt, black shorts and his Ray-bans as he rode up on his dark gray, Trek hybrid bike equipped with disc brakes. He was surrounded by a phalanx of Secret Service agents, their guns in cases slung over their backs.
As he came to a stop, he pointed down to the right hand pedal and laughed.
"I want you to know an important thing: I took off the … thing."
In the middle of answering a question, he remembered he was wearing his bike helmet:
"I look like a fool here in this interview."
"I put this helmet on because it was a tough interview."
The president passed by the pool and a few dozen onlookers on his return to his beach home at 1219.
He waved at the pool but did not stop.
The White House press office has announced a lid until 1900.
Pool was driven to the Gordons Pond parking lot at Cape Henlopen park again and swept again and now, with the setting sun offering near perfect lighting, photography wise, is awaiting the president's arrival for his flight back to Washington aboard Marine 1.
The president arrived in his motorcade, stepped out of his SUV, and climbed aboard Marine 1 at 1951, preceded by First Lady Jill Biden, with a salute to the Marines flanking the forward stairs.
The pool was positioned a good 100 yards away and there was no opportunity for questions.
At 1955, the helicopter is aloft and circling around to a heading back to Washington, about an hour away.
Handing off to the in-town pool for arrival.
From the press office:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Gordon's Pond:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Washington, DC:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
It has been my pleasure serving as your out of town pooler. Until next time.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening from Fort McNair, where President Biden landed in Marine One at 8:46 p.m. The president and first lady stepped off a few moments later and made their way across the landing field and to the Beast without stopping for questions.
Motorcade is rolling at 8:52 p.m.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 9:01 p.m. after an uneventful drive. The president and first lady entered the residence at 9:03. The White House called a lid at 9:06 p.m.
The South Lawn is set up for tomorrow's event marking the passage and signing of the bipartisan gun safety bill. There are hundreds of white chairs set up on the lawn.
Have a good night, everyone.