Pool Reports by 
, 
Air Force One was wheels down at 3:09 PM local time Wednesday at Ben Gurion Airport.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan gaggled during the flight. That should have been played on White House live.
John Kirby came back after the gaggle. He said that Jake Sullivan misspoke when asked about reopening a consulate in east Jerusalem. He said the US is "interested in looking into a consulate in Jerusalem." He said Sullivan meant to say Jerusalem not East Jerusalem per US policy.
The president is set to give remarks at an arrival ceremony at the airport. Then he will receive a briefing at the airport on the Iron Dome and Iron Beam Air Defense systems from the Minister of Defense. After that he will visit the Yad Vashem Holocaust museum in Jerusalem.
President Biden exited Air Force One at 3:29 PM.
A large welcome ceremony was set up on the tarmac with a red carpet rolled out to the steps of AF1, rows of military and law enforcement officials lined up, a band and US and Israeli flags waving in front of a grandstand.
Prime Minister Yair Lapid and other officials waited for Biden at the bottom of the steps. A full list of the officials from the White House is below.
Mr. Biden fist bumped several officials on the red carpet. Pool did did not see any handshakes.
The president's remarks at the arrival ceremony will be carried here: 
from the White House:
Upon arrival to Ben Gurion Airport, the President will be greeted by:
H.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of Israel
H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
H.E. Naftali Bennett, Alternate Prime Minister of the State of Israel
H.E. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
H.E. Mickey Levy, Speaker of the Knesset
Mr. Gil Haskel, Chief of Protocol for Israel
H.E. Eyal Hulata, National Security Advisor to Israel
H.E. Mike Herzog, Ambassador of Israel to the United States
General Avi Gil, Military Aide to the Prime Minister
Brig. General Alaa Abu Rukun, Military Aide to the President
Hadas Mizrachi, Chief of Protocol to Israel Defense Forces
Additional Israeli dignitaries, a military band, and an honor guard.
The Israeli president began his remarks at 3:39 PM, saying that the people of Israel welcomed President Biden with open hearts and that here he was "among family." He called the trip Biden's "journey of peace."
As always, check all quotes against transcript.
The Prime Minister then spoke, calling the visit historic and personal. He said Biden was one of the best friends Israel has ever known. He said Israel has grown and developed and that they would discuss security issues including " the need to renew a strong global coalition that will stop the Iranian nuclear problem."
Biden began at 3:44 PM. He said it was an honor to stand with friends and "and visit the independent Jewish state of Israel." He noted it was his tenth visit to Israel, calling every visit a "blessing."
Biden said the relationship between the US and Israel " is deeper and stronger in my view than it's ever been." He also said: "We reaffirm the unshakable commitment the United States Israel security, including partnering with Israel on the most cutting edge defense systems in the world."
He said he would continue to discuss his support for a two state solution though he said he knows it is " not in the near term."
"A two state solution remains in my view, the best way to ensure the future meaningful measure of freedom, prosperity and democracy for Israelis and Palestinians," he said.
He concluded speaking at 3:50 PM.
Ahead of the remarks the band played the Star Spangled Banner and the Israeli national anthem.
Motorcade left the arrival site at 4:02 PM and arrived at another part of the airport at 4:08 PM for a briefing on the Iron Dome and Iron Beam Air Defense Systems.
The briefing will be streamed here: 
At 4:58 PM the motorcade began rolling for Jerusalem.
The White House offers these details on the previous event:
Greeting the President on arrival at the Briefing Tent:
H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
Benjamin "Benny" Gantz, Defense Minister of Israel
Brigadier General Shawn Harris, United States Army
The President is receiving a briefing on the Iron Beam Air Defense Systems with the following officials:
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
T.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa
Mr. John Kirby, Coordinator for Strategic Communications, National Security Council
Brigadier General Shawn Harris, United States Army
H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
Benjamin "Benny" Gantz, Defense Minister of Israel
Lt. General, Aviv Kochavi Chief General Staff of the Israel Defense Forces
H.E. Naftali Bennett, Alternate Prime Minister of the State of Israel
H.E. Mike Herzog, Ambassador of Israel to the United States
Amir Eshel, Director General of the Ministry of Defense
Eyal Hulata, Head of National Security Council
Maayan Israeli, Chief of Staff to the Minister of Defense
BG Yaki Dolf, Military Secretary to the Minister of Defense
G Avi Gil, Military Secretary to the Prime Minister
Alon Ushpiz, Director General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Dror Shalom, Head of Policy and Political-Military Bureau
At 5:42 PM the motorcade arrived at the Yad Vashem museum in Jerusalem.
Streets were shut down with heavy security presence. We passed a sign that said "Jerusalem Welcomes President Biden."
At 5:56 PM President Biden entered the Hall of Remembrance. He wore a yarmulke and was joined by the prime minister, president and other officials.
Details from the White House on attendees at the solemn ceremony below.
Biden and the other officials stood in a row as a choir opened the event. Biden was then asked to rekindle the eternal flame in the hall. He did so and paused for a moment by the blaze.
A woman narrating the event spoke about the 6 million murdered in the holocaust and then asked Biden to lay a wreath on a slab over the ashes of holocaust victims.
A prayer for the souls of the martyrs was then sung.
Biden then greeted two Holocaust survivors who were seated to one side. Per the White House they were American Holocaust survivors Dr. Gita Cycowicz and Rena Quint. Pool could not see but photos show Biden embracing both women.
Pool was moved out at 6:09 pm
At 6:21 Pm the president exited and signed a guest book outside. He spent several minutes writing. He then shook hands with the prime minister and other officials. Pool was moved at 6:24 PM.
At 6:35 PM motorcade is rolling.
From the White House: Upon arrival at Yad Vashem, the President will be greeted by:
H.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of Israel
H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
H.E. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
Mr. Dani Dayan, Chair, Yad Vashem
Rabbi Israel Meir Lau, Chairman of the Yad Vashem Council
The President is participating in a wreath laying ceremony, where he will light the eternal flame and sign the guestbook. Participants include:
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
H.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of Israel
H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
H.E. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
Rabbi Israel Meir Lau, Chairman of the Yad Vashem Council
Mr. Dani Dayan, Chair, Yad Vashem
Ms. Amanda Smulowitz, Emcee for ceremony –Director, Commemoration & Community Relations,
Inbal Kvity Ben Dov
Cantor Shmuel Berlad
T.H. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel
T.H. Deborah Lipstadt, Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism
Dr. Gita Cycowicz, Holocaust survivor
Ms. Rena Quint, Holocaust survivo
The president's motorcade arrived at the King David Hotel at 6:48 PM. Pool did not see POTUS exit the motorcade.
A lid was also called at 6:48 PM. Thanks to co-pooler Cleve Wootson. Good night.
From the White House:
The President pre-taped an interview at the White House yesterday that will air at 8 PM on Israel's Channel 12.