Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where the Mexican delegation is about to arrive. The pool is gathering soon for the Oval Office spray of POTUS's bilat with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador (who will be referenced henceforth as AMLO).
As you've likely noticed from the daily guidance, there is no briefing this afternoon. Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and national security adviser Jake Sullivan will be gaggling late-night aboard AF1 after the departure from JBA for Jerusalem.
We've got the Congressional Picnic on the South Lawn at 4:30 p.m. and a 9:30 p.m. departure for Andrews before handing things off to the out-of-town pool.
I'll be around all day, so holler if you have any questions. Thanks,
AMLO's SUV, festooned with American and Mexican flags, rolled through the WH north gate at 10:48 a.m. and pulled up to the West Wing portico. Chief of Protocol Rufus Gifford greeted the Mexican president and a woman I assume is his wife as they got out and ushered him inside.
Before entering, AMLO waved to the couple dozen Mexican journalists on hand in the driveway.
We'll be gathering for the spray shortly.
Pool entered the Oval at 11:25 a.m. This is still going, but sending this out now — will follow up when it wraps.
POTUS and AMLO sat side by side in the armchairs at the foot of the sofas and beneath the FDR portrait. Interpreters sat behind them both.
Please check all quotes against transcript.
Biden, in a navy suit with blue striped tie, spoke first, referring to AMLO as "my friend, my partner." And he spoke for several minutes.
"We see Mexico as an equal partner," he began. "Our nations share close ties…and were United through our values and our history."
Biden, reading largely from notecards in his lap, spoke about wanting to strengthen economic ties and "addressing migration as a shared hemispheric challenge."
Biden: "Despite the overhyped headlines that we sometimes see, you and I have a strong, productive relationship…and I would argue a partnership."
"Like is, Mexico has become a top destination of migrants, and here's what we're going to do to address it together…
"My admin is leading the way to creating work opportunities through legal pathways," Biden continued, saying that his administration set "a record" last year by issuing 300K H-2 visas for Mexican workers.
Thanked AMLO "for also stepping up" and issuing visas for Central American migrants in Mexico.
"We're also making historic investments in infrastructure modernization across our nearly 2,000-mile border with Mexico," he said, noting that the BIL is allocating $3.4 billion for upgrades at border stations.
Biden said the US is "also accelerating our efforts to stop the illegal trafficking of fentanyl" and working to slow human struggling. "We need every country in the region to join us," he added, mentioning the migrants found dead in a trailer in San Antonio last month.
"We know we have to meet these challenges together," Biden said as he wrapped at 11:35.
AMLO, in a black suit and green patterned tie, spoke next. He also went on for a bit.
"We're so happy, Mr. President, to be here at the White House once more," he said through an interpreter.
Also speaking from written notes, he said myriad challenges demand greater cooperation between them. "These are truly difficult times," he said, referencing the pandemic, Ukraine war "that has made the economic crisis even worse" and inflation such that "the whole world is suffering."
"This will not be the first or last occasion where we close ranks to help each other," AMLO continued. "In spite of our differences and also in spite of our grievances that are not easy to forget…on many occasions we've been able to coincide and work together as true allies."
AMLO referenced FDR's presidency, saying the circumstances then "are quite similar" to now and that "we should be extracting good lessons" from Roosevelt's New Deal policies and his "good neighbors" policy with continental allies and the "respect for the sovereignty of Mexico." It laid the foundation, he said, for partnership throughout WWII.
As he went on, Biden sat pensively, occasionally writing on his notecards.
He's still going at 11:46…
In all, AMLO spoke for 31 minutes (after Biden spoke for 10). Spray ended at 12:11 p.m.
AMLO, continuing his remarks at 11:47, said he's proposing "something similar" to the WW2 era cooperation, noting that the USMCA still leaves "margins for us to intensify our bilateral relationship."
"We should remember that the development of our nations remains fundamentally on our production capacity," he said.
When at 11:51 AMLO joked "President Biden, I'm about to finish," POTUS laughed and interjected that he had been marveling at how still a reporter held their phone to record video.
"Since the energy crisis started, Mexico has used 72 percent of its crude oil exports to the United States," he said. "While we're waiting for prices or gasoline to go down in the United States," he continued, "we have decided that it was necessary for us to allow Americans who live close to the border…to go and get their gasoline on the Mexican side at lower prices."
Biden seemed to be suppressing a grin, looking straight ahead.
AMLO compared the cost of gasoline in the US and Mexico, noting that it's a dollar cheaper per gallon in his country.
Biden covered his mouth as he appeared to stifle a yawn.
AMLO suggested the suspension of tariffs and regulations "so that we can lower prices for consumers in both our countries." He also floated a joint public-private investment plan to produce more goods.
On immigration, he said the US should allow more skilled Mexican and Central American workers into the US "to support" the work force. "I say this in a sincere way and in the most respectful manner, it is indispensable for us to regulrize and give certainty to migrants who for years have lived and worked in a very honest manner and are also contributing to the development of this great nation."
AMLO: "I know your adversaries, the conservatives, are going to be screaming all over the place…but without a bold program…it will not be possible to solve problems. The way out is not through conservatism. The way out is through transformation. We have to be bold in our actions."
"President Biden, we trust you because you respect our sovereignty," he concluded. "Count on us always."
At 12:06, Biden spoke again, telling AMLO, "you've had a lot of important things to say…the thrust of what you're saying, I agree with. We need to work closer together."
Biden reminded AMLO that the US is "the fastest growing" economy in the world, detailing job and wage growth.
"It doesn't mean we don't have problems. We do. And we do believe, I do believe, that working with you we can help solve both our problems."
China, he said, presents "real problems" but they're "solvable."
"I hope I've demonstrated my whole career…my respect for Mexico," which he said was a "great nation."
Finally, at 12:11 after some mild repartee with the press, we were escorted out.
We have a lunch lid until 4:15 p.m.
At 4:15, the pool was escorted out to a packed and very warm South Lawn for the congressional picnic. This event is open press but for those not able to be here, a bit of the scene:
Dozens of tables and chairs are set up adjacent to the South Portico, which is decorated with the festival stars and stripes bunting. A platform is set up in the driveway for POTUS to speak from. There are lots of food (Philly steaks, brisket, fried chicken baskets and veggie sandwiches in individual boxes) and drink tents on both sides, and a couple Dove ice cream carts. There are four cornhole sets with the presidential seal and two inflatable misting things behind the press riser.
POTUS should be out shortly. His remarks will be live streamed in the usual spot.
Also, I have asked for a time that the AMLO bilat ended but not yet received one.
POTUS and FLOTUS walked out of the South Portico at 4:46.
The First Lady is speaking first and will be followed by POTUS. Again, remarks are available via livestream at 
.
A few lawmakers spotted in the crowd: Senators Coons, Murphy, Warnock and Tester (playing cornhole with a few kids), Reps. Schiff, Perlmutter, Bustos, Secretary Buttigieg also here with a slew of WH officials, including Neera Tanden.
Getting cloudier and darker, but also breezier.
POTUS spoke briefly about the importance of gatherings like this in solidifying relationships, including with members of the other party. He wrapped at 4:53 saying he planned "to sit down and eat with you" and that he hopes the rain will hold off.
Here is a list of attendees from the WH:
Joining the President, the First Lady, and the Vice President for the White House Congressional Picnic:
We have a dinner lid until 9 p.m.
I'm told POTUS is still on schedule for a 9:30 motorcade to JBA.
The WH passes this along—
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Ben Gurion Airport, Israel:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning!
I'm Raquel Krahenbuhl from TV Globo and it's a pleasure to be your foreign pooler today.
This morning, President Joe Biden will welcome the President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador (AMLO) to the White House for the second time. This will be their 4th meeting. They met in person for the first time on November 18, 2021, and they had two virtual meetings - on March 1, 2021, and April 29, 2022.
The meeting happens a month after President López Obrador refused President Biden's invitation to participate in the Summit of the Americas because the White House didn't invite the leaders of Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua.
This is just one of the growing list of divergences between the two leaders. They have disagreements on trade, energy, climate change, foreign policy, including the war in Ukraine. On Friday President Obrador said his administration will remain neutral. He refused to join the sanctions against Russia, recently criticized NATO's policy calling it "immoral", and called the U.S. support for Ukraine a "crass error".
Previewing the meeting, NSA Jake Sullivan said the presidents will discuss "their common vision for North America and common efforts to address global challenges, including Russia".
A senior administration official said they "expect to announce joint actions to improve border infrastructure and address irregular migration; enhance law enforcement cooperation to disrupt the flow of fentanyl to both our countries; and promote clean energy, economic innovation, and prosperity".
Asked on Monday about the agenda, President López Obrador said he wants to discuss with President Biden immigration, security, and controlling inflation.
: The Embassy of Mexico said they will discuss "how to deal with root causes/ joint development efforts in the communities of origin". Mexico joined the United States in adopting the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, a framework to share responsibility and economic support for countries most impacted by refugee and migration flows. A senior administration official said they "will commit to completing a multi-year joint U.S.-Mexico border infrastructure modernization effort for projects along the 2,000-mile border" and will "launch a bilateral working group on labor migration pathways and worker protections". AMLO has advocated that the U.S. grants more work visas to Mexicans and Central Americans to relieve pressure on its country and he has defended the importance of the Mexican workforce to expand also the U.S. economy.
: AMLO said on Friday that he has a plan to deal with inflation and that he is going to propose it. "We have to look for a way to act together, help each other in controlling inflation". The Mexican Embassy said they will discuss "how to deal with inflation caused by soaring prices of commodities, how to create new regional value chains, and strengthen existing ones". In June inflation in Mexico rose to almost 8%. The pandemic-related effects are one of the causes of the record number of Mexicans crossing the border to the U.S.
: The Mexican Embassy said they will discuss "how to strengthen regional trade with USMCA as the main anchor". The United States is Mexico's top trade partner and Mexico is the second biggest trade partner of the U.S. In 2019, the U.S.-Mexico-Canada signed a new free trade agreement. Since then, the U.S. has filed many complaints pushing Mexico to enforce environmental laws. They argue Mexico is violating the agreement with his Fourth Transformation program - a domestic policy that has prioritized state power plants and oil companies over private investment in renewable energy and breaking commitments on climate change.
A senior administration official said they will also commit to deepen the cooperation to combat transnational criminal organizations that foment violence in both countries. "To that end, we will establish a U.S.-Mexico operational task force under the bilateral Bicentennial Partnership on Security that was launched last October to ensure that we are accelerating our joint efforts to disrupt the flow of fentanyl into our countries". Mexico has increased the crack down of meth and fentanyl labs - the seizures went from six in May to 72 in June.
AMLO- a left-wing populist who has been a politician for more than three decades- became the president of Mexico in December 2018 - limited to a single six-year term. His first official international trip was to Washington on July 2020 (on a commercial flight) - in the middle of the pandemic - to celebrate the start of the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement.
He developed personal chemistry with former President Donald Trump, besides his book -
- accusing Trump of racism against Mexicans. President Obrador was one of the last world leaders to recognize President Biden's election victory – along with presidents of Brazil, China, and Russia. AMLO, who himself accused his rivals of election fraud in his defeats in 2006 and 2012, justified it was interventionism to "make any kind of recognition of a government that is not yet legally and legitimately constituted". He recognized Biden's victory after the formal electoral college vote and sent the president elect a two-page letter on December 14. AMLO emphasized that "Mexico and the U.S. can't be distant neighbors with more than 38 million Mexicans living in the U.S. and more than a million Americans in Mexico". They had their first call five days later- on December 19. On January 22 - just one day after Biden's inauguration- they had their first call as presidents. Lopez Obrador was the second foreign leader President Biden spoke with – after the Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau.
President López Obrador arrived in the White House at 10:48am.
He wasn't welcome by President Biden in the entrance of the West Wing. Instead he was welcomed by the chief of protocol.
He was followed by the Mexican delegation, included the minister of foreign affairs, agriculture, economy, and the commissioner for migration.
Pool was in the Oval for about 45 minutes. Many colleagues left the room saying it reminded them of the Trump era.
At 11:26 President Biden welcomed President Obrador saying he sees Mexico "as an equal partner" and that "despite the overhyped headlines" they "sometimes have a strong, productive relationship"
President Lopez Obrador started his remarks at 11:35pm. He spoke in Spanish for more than 30 minutes.
He noted that despite "their differences, and also their grievances that are not really easy to forget with time or with good wishes" , they've been able "to go inside and able to work together as friends and true allies"
He delivered a long remark remembering the history between Mexico and US during Roosevelt administration and proposed something similar to the World War 2.
After speaking for about 15 minutes, he said: "I could summarize everything we've been saying in five basic items of cooperation"
1- "Since the energy crisis started, Mexico has used 72% of its crude and fuel oil exports to the United States refineries 800 thousand barrels a day. Therefore we decided that while we're waiting for the prices to go down in the U.S, we've decided that it was necessary for us to allow Americans who live close to the border to go and get their gasoline on the Mexican side at lower prices."
2- "We are putting at the disposal of your administration over one thousand quilometer of gas pipelines south border with mexico to transport gas from Texas to New Mexico, Arizona and California. A volume that can ...supply about 300 million people"
3- '' Even though the USMCA had made progress to eliminate tariffs,there are still some other that could be immediately suspended... so that we can lower prices for consumers in both our countries."
4- "Start a private-public investment plan between the two countries to produce goods that would strengthen our markets so we can avoid heavy importations from other countries and continents"
5- "Ordering migration flow and allowing arrival in the United States of construction workers, technicians, and professionals of different disciplines , mexicans and central americans, with temporary worker visas to ensure not paralyzing the economy because of the lack of people...It is indispensable for us to regularize now and give certainty to migrants who for years have lived and worked in a very honest manner and who are also contributing to the development of this great nation. I know your adversaries, the conservatives, are going to be screaming all over the place, but without a very bold program, it will not be possible to solve problems... The way out is not through conservatism. The way out is through transformation. We have to be bold in our actions....
AMLO concluded: " From our part, I've acted in good faith and with all transparency because there shouldn't be selfishes between neighbors and friends.. President Biden, we trust you because you respect our sovereignty...We are willing to continue working with you for the benefit of our people. Count on our support and solidarity always. Long live the United States. Long live Mexico"
At 12:06, Biden spoke again, telling AMLO, "you've had a lot of important things to say… I agree that we need to work closer together."
They didn't take questions from the press.
Participating in a bilateral with the President and Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican States:
The President
T.H. Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture
T.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce
T.H. Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Deputy National Security Advisor
T.H. Wendy Sherman, Deputy Secretary of State
T.H. Ken Salazar, Ambassador of the United States to Mexico
T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Western Hemisphere, National Security Council
H.E. Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President of the United Mexican States
H.E. Marcelo Ebrard Casaubon, Secretary of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Tatiana Clouthier Carrillo, Secretary of Economy
H.E. Víctor Manuel Villalobos Arámbula, Secretary of Agriculture and Rural Development
Mr. Roberto Velasco Álvarez, Chief Officer for North America