Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from Jerusalem.

Your pool tested for Covid and got swept. We are now holding at the RON, the King David Hotel.

Our first stop today will be the Augusta Victoria Hospital where the president will deliver remarks.

Here is the guidance in case useful.

As always, feel free to reach out if and when needed.

 
 
 


 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 


 
 
 


The motorcade left King David Hotel at 10:26 AM.

Your pooler did not see the president exit the hotel.


The motorcade reached Augusta Victoria Hospital at 10:38 am and came to a stop at 10:39.

The roads leading to the hospital were lined with barricades and security forces.

Adjacent streets were blocked with buses.


?At 10:42 AM the pool was brought into a room with high wooden ceilings and arched windows.

We are holding before the president gives remarks.

The president is meeting with hospital staff and medical professionals, per the White House.

We have a 2 min warning at 10:52 am.


Biden entered the room at 10:54 AM.

The CEO of the hospital Dr Fadi Atrash gave introductory remarks.

"Thank you for your support" he said.

The president started speaking at 10:57 AM

He mentioned that Dr Jill Biden visited this hospital twice before him.

He quoted his favorite Irish poem by Seamus Hainey.

Said the East Jerusalem Hospital network is "backbone" of health care for Palestinians.

He spoke about "our commitment to support health and dignity" of Palestinians.

He announced that the US is committing an additional 100 million dollars to the East Jérusalem Hospital network.

Palestinians and Israelis alike deserve "freedom, security" and "dignity" he said

Remarks concluded at 11:11 AM

A woman in the audience, who identified herself as a nurse in pediatric care, then told Biden "thank you for your support but we need more justice, we need more dignity"

The president listened and said "Thank you"

More tk

As always please check against transcript.


We are rolling at 11:20 AM.

Here is a link to the remarks at the hospital.



Onpassing this from the WH

Upon arrival at the Augusta Victoria Hospital, the President will be greeted by:
 Dr. Fadi Atrash, CEO, Augusta Victoria Hospital and East Jerusalem Hospital Network Secretary General
 Adnan Farhoud, CEO, Al-Makassed Hospital
 Violette Mubarak, CEO, Princess Basma Center
 Abdullah Sabri, CEO, Red Crescent Society
 Ahmad Ma’ali, CEO, St. John’s Eye Hospital
 Jamil Koussa, CEO, St. Joseph’s Maternity Hospital
 Abdelkader Husseini, Chair of the East Jerusalem Hospital Network

The President delivered remarks at the Augusta Victoria Hospital announcing funding to improve healthcare access for the Palestinian people

Speaking program:
 Dr. Fadi Atrash, CEO, Augusta Victoria Hospital and East Jerusalem Hospital Network (EJHN) Secretary General
 The President

The President also greeted and took a photo with Augusta Victoria Hospital Administrative staff. 


The motorcade reached the Muqata'a presidential compound in Bethlehem at 11:45 AM.

On the your pooler spotted a portrait of Shireen Abu Akleh on a wall.

We also drove under a sign reading "Justice for Shireen" and saw banners with the same inscription.

Your pooler spotted posters with "Mr President this is apartheid" on both sides of the road.

We are now waiting for the arrival ceremony to take place. 


The arrival ceremony started at 11:48 AM in a courtyard lined with Palestinian and American flags.

The president came in at 11:49 AM with the president of the Palestinian authority Mahmoud Abbas.

Biden was wearing his signature sunglasses. They stood side by side while the honor guard played the national anthem and then the Palestinian anthem.

The two leaders exited the court yard at 11:53.

At 11:56 am the pool was brought into a small room where Biden and Abbas were standing in front of two chairs. The two leaders shook hands.

Soon after the pool was ushered out and we are now waiting for their joining statement. These will stream on the White House website.


We are holding in a large room of the presidential compound . There are several rows of chairs facing two lecterns and six flags - three American flags and three Palestinian flags.

On an empty chair facing the podium is a picture of Shireen Abu Akleh wearing a bullet proof vest, with the words "The voice of Palestine" written on it in Arabic.

Your pooler also saw five Palestinian journalists wearing black "Justice for Shireen" T-shirts.

A reminder that the joint statements will stream here: 


Sharing this, from the WH

Upon arrival at the Muqata’a Presidential Compound in Bethlehem, West Bank, the President was greeted by:
 H.E. Mahmoud Abbas, President of the Palestinian Authority
 Two Palestinian children presenting flowers

The President participated in an expanded bilateral meeting with Mahmoud Abbas, President of the Palestinian Authority. Meeting participants include:

T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
 T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
 T.H. Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President and Director of Communications
 Mr. George Noll, Palestinian Affairs Unit Chief
 T.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa
 Mr. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator
 T.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs
 Ms. Cynthia Cook, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security Council

Mr. Mohammed Shtayyeh, Prime Minister
 Mr. Hussein Al-Sheikh, Secretary General of the PLO Executive Committee
 Mr. Ziad Abu Amr,. Deputy Prime Minister
 Mr. Riyad Al-Malki, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates
 Mr. Majed Faraj, Head of General Intelligence Service
 Mr. Intisar Abu Amara, Chief of Staff of the Presidency
 Mr. Nabil Abu Rudeineh, Spokesperson of the Presidency
 Mr. Majdi Khaldi, Advisor of Diplomatic Affairs for H.E. President Mahmoud Abbas


Per the White House:

The President tested negative for COVID-19 yesterday.


Biden and Abbas entered the room at 1:23 PM

President Abbas spoke first.

POTUS started speaking at 1:31 PM and concluded at 1:40 PM.

The two leaders then shook hands and chatted briefly on the podium but your pooler could not hear what they were saying.

They exited at 1:41 pm.

The motorcade started rolling at 1:46pm, next stop is the Church of the Nativity.

Your pooler is not sharing quotes since the event was streaming on the WH website.

A clarification: the empty chair with the picture of Shireen Abu Akleh was in the first row of the section of the room where Palestinian journalists were seated, behind three rows of chairs for Palestinian officials.


?The motorcade reached the Church of the Nativity at 1:55 pm.

At 1:57 pm the president exited the Beast. He chatted briefly with the greeters, among them two women wearing traditional dresses.

At 2:00 PM he entered the church. We are now holding in a cafe nearby.


Passing along from the White House

Upon arrival at the Church of the Nativity, the President was greeted by:
 Mr. Kamel Hmeid, Governor of Bethlehem
 Mr. Hanna Hanania, Mayor of Bethlehem
 Mr. Thabet al Saadi, Bethlehem Police Chief
 Mr. Nadder Omar, Bethlehem District Commander
 Firas Bader, Palestinian Authority Protocol
 Two Palestinian girls dressed in full Bethlehem dress
 27 children waving U.S. and Palestinian flags
 Theophilos III, Patriarch, Greek Orthodox Church
 Nourhan Manougian, Patriarch of Jerusalem, Armenian Orthodox Church
 Fr. Francesco Patton Custos, Franciscan Custodian of the Holy Land
 Rula Ma’ay’ah, Palestinian Authority Minister of Tourism 


The WH shares this

The President is visiting the Church of the Nativity to underscore support for Christians who face challenges across the region. He is meeting with Church Patriarchs and will receive an overview of the mosaics and architecture of the church.


?The motorcade left the Church of the Nativity at 2:50 PM.

Your pooler did not see the president exit the church but spotted POTUS as the Beast drove by. He was wearing his aviators.


The pool’s helicopter landed at Ben Gurion Airport, Tel Aviv, at 3:27 PM, where Air Force One is expected to take off soon for an historic flight to Jeddah.

From a distance your pooler did see an honor guard waiting for the president.

Sharing this from the WH

Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Ben Gurion Airport:
 Secretary of State Antony Blinken
 Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
 Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Communications Director
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President 


POTUS exited Marine One at 3:46 PM.

Wearing his sunglasses, he then walked over to Air Force One.

Israeli PM Lapid and Israeli president Herzog, among other officials, were waiting for him next to the stairs.

Biden shook hands with each of them and chatted for a few minutes with the officials.

Ambassador Niles was also there.

At 3:50 POTUS waved from the top of the stairs and boarded.

We will be wheels up shortly. Your pooler hears gaggle with Press Sec Karine Jean Pierre and NSA Jake Sullivan will take place approx one hour into the flight.


Air Force One took off at 4:01 pm

It will be a 2 hours 5 minutes flight to Saudi Arabia

Per the WH

Upon arrival at Ben Gurion Airport, the President will be greeted by:
 H.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of Israel
 H.E. Yair Lapid, Prime Minister of the State of Israel
 H.E. Tom Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of Israel 


?Air Force One landed at 5:53 pm local time at King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia


Potus deplaned at 6:11 PM.

He was greeted by Saudi officials.

There was a fist bump with one of the greeters and then Biden shook hands with other officials.

Your pooler will share their names as soon as she gets them.

Biden walked down a light purple carpet lined with an honor guard, holding up swords.

He entered the Beast at 6:12 PM. We are now rolling


Per the WH

Upon arrival at King Abdulaziz International Airport, the President was greeted by:
 His Royal Highness Prince Khalid bin Faisal bil Al Saud, Governor of Makkah Region 
 Princess Reema bint Bandar Bin Sultan Al Saud, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the United States of America
 Martina Strong, Chargé d'Affaires of the United States to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
 Faris Y. Asad, Consul General of the U.S. Consulate General in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
 Fahad Al Saheel, Director General of Royal Terminals 


The motorcade reached Al Salam Royal Palace, where the president will participate in a bilateral meeting with King Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, at 6:33 PM.
 This meeting is "officials only" according to the WH guidance.

The streets were empty and lined with police cars and security forces.

We came to a stop at 6:34 PM. Your pooler did not see POTUS exit his car.


According to images shown by the Saudi state TV the Crown Prince and POTUS exchanged a fist bump upon arrival.

The pool arrived after this interaction took place.

 


Pool is currently holding in a room of the palace.

Reception is sometimes poor so apologies for the delays you might experience getting the pool reports.


Sending for pooler Aurelia End who is having technical issues. Apologies for delay. Cell service is terrible.

Pool was led into a large room where the POTUS and MBS meeting was taking place.

The two men walked in together at 7:34 pm.

They sat facing one another across from a large rectangular table. Each man had aides along his side.

American and Saudi flags lined the back wall.

MBS spoke first welcoming POTUS to Saudi Arabia.

Biden spoke second.

Neither man could be heard. Boom mics were not allowed in the room.

Neither man shouted to responded questions which were Jamal Khashoggi - will you apologize to his family and do you still consider Saudi Arabia a pariah?

MBS smirked/smiled when Peter Alexander shouted his question on Jamal Khashoggi.

Pool was in room less than 2 minutes. Pool is endeavoring to get audio and will share if we succeed.

Note: Pool was not allowed into Biden’s first meeting with Saudi king. State TV showed footage:

 


Your pooler is back online. Apologies once again about these technical issues.

Sharing this from the WH about arrival at the palace earlier

Upon arrival at the Al Salam Royal Palace, the President will be greeted by the Royal Family. 


Pool is holding in vans outside the palace.

Sharing this from the WH.

This is the first meeting the president had after arriving at the palace, it’s not happening now.

The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with King Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques. Meeting Participants include:

T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
 T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs

His Majesty King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques
 His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister, and Minister of Defense
 His Excellency Dr. Musaed bin Muhammad Al-Aiban, Minister of State, Member of the Council of Ministers and National Security Advisor 


The motorcade left the palace at 9:29 PM and we are now rolling.


From the WH just now

The President will deliver remarks at 10:30PM in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. This will be covered by the travel pool.


The motorcade reached the RON at 10 pm

A correction: I skipped pool report #30.


The White House shares this

Timing from meetings earlier today:

7:02 PM delegation meeting begins
 7:34 PM working meeting begins
 8:39 meeting breaks
 After that a working dinner session took place, per the WH


At 10:37 PM pool is waiting for the president in a room with a lectern and 2 flags.
 I will share a 2 min warning


We have a 2 min warning at 10:43

Jake Sullivan and Antony Blinken are in the room.


The president entered the room and started speaking at 10:45 PM.

As a reminder this should be streaming on the WH website.


POTUS concluded his remarks and then took questions on the Crown Prince's reaction at his mention of Jamal Khashoggi, on the reaction of Jamal Khashoggi's fiancee, on gas prices, on Saudi Arabia as a "pariah", on the fist bump and on Manchin.

He exited at 10:55 PM

On his way out he was asked whether Manchin was negotiating in good faith and he said he did not know and he did not negotiate with Joe Manchin.

Please check against transcript.

The WH called a lid after the president left the room at 10:55 PM.

It was a pleasure serving as your pooler on this eventful day.

Massive thanks to copooler Emily Goodin from the Daly Mail for her help today.