Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! I'll be your pooler for the vice president's trip to Florida today, with stops in Orlando and Tampa.
Pool has been tested and cleared through security and is gathered at Joint Base Andrews for the VP's arrival. She is scheduled to take off from here at 8:30 AM.
More from her schedule below. Please reach out with any questions.
At 
, the Vice President will give remarks at the 70th Boule of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated. These remarks at the Orange County Convention Center will be pooled press.
At 
, the Vice President, joined by Secretary Xavier Becerra of the Department of Health and Human Services, will hold a roundtable with Florida legislative leaders to discuss reproductive rights. This meeting at the Orange County Convention Center will have a pool spray for opening remarks.
At 
, the Vice President will depart Orlando, FL en route Tampa, FL. This departure from Orlando International Airport and arrival at MacDill Air Force Base will be pooled press.
At 
, the Vice President will engage with servicemembers representing United States Central Command (CENTCOM), United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM) and the 6th Air Refueling Wing to express appreciation and gratitude for their work on behalf of our entire Administration and the American people. This meeting at MacDill Air Force Base will be pooled press.
At 
, the Vice President will meet and receive a briefing from CENTCOM Commander, General Michael E. Kurilla, SOCOM Commander, General Richard D. Clarke, and other CENTCOM and SOCOM leaders. This briefing at the CENTCOM Headquarters will have a pool spray for opening remarks.
At 
, the Vice President will tour the CENTCOM Joint Operations Center. This tour will have a pool spray at the top.
The VP arrived on M2 at 8:32 AM.
She walked over to greet service members and boarded the plane at 8:35 AM.
She is wearing all white, the ritual colors for her sorority, AKA, as they gather in Orlando today. A handful of her AKA sorority sisters on staff are also wearing white.
Health and Human Services Secretary Becerra arrived earlier at 8:24 AM and boarded the plane before coming back down to wait for the VP.
Greeters:
- Lt. Colonel Richard "Rick" Hulun, 89th Maintenance Group Deputy
- Secretary Xavier Becerra, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
The VP came back to speak to press for about 5 minutes OTR before takeoff. Wheels up for Orlando shortly, as of 8:45 AM.
AF2 was wheels down in Orlando at 10:38 AM. The VP deplaned at 10:56 and spoke briefly to pool under the wing about why she's in Florida today.
"When I think about the issue of choice, the President and I feel very strongly that we have a duty and obligation to protect the American people, including American women, and that includes women in Florida."
"Here in Florida, just most recently, a law was passed effective, I believe, July 1, that is going to allow the government to impose its decisions on the women of Florida, instead of giving women the right to choose to make decisions about some of the most personal matters a woman could have to deal with."
"I'm here to speak with these leaders to talk about what we can do together to ensure that we use all that is within our capacity to protect the women of America, which includes women in Florida."
Full Otter: 
Rolling for the Orange County Convention Center as of 11:01.
Background on the first stop below:
On Background From WH Official
The program began at 11:44 and the VP was introduced at 11:47 to thousands of cheers and yells from AKA sisters here. Will Tweet video if possible.
The crowd is nearly 12,000 (11,979 is the official count) members from all over the country and the world, per VP staff. Everyone is in white, some with pink and green accessories.
On the dais with the VP are 80 members of AKA — former international presidents, members of sorority leadership and committee chairs. Pink tables and pink and green decorations framed the stage with a VPOTUS lectern in the middle.
"It was certainly nice of God to create Kamala Harris," her introducer, outgoing AKA International President Dr. Glenda Glover, began.
VP highlights:
"It is so good to be here. I can't even explain how this feels."
"The sisterhood remains a key part of who I am today."
She says she has a signed copy of a book from one of AKA's founders in her West Wing office.
Even when the sorority was founded, she said, 89 people were lynched across the country.
"Our advocacy has been the history of moving the highest levels of government into action."
"We will always fight for what our communities need and the best of who we are as a nation."
In 2020, the VP says AKA sorors showed up for her and President Biden and "you showed up for America."
She mentions her work on the Black maternal health crisis and the summit she held at the White House, plus the work to expand postpartum Medicaid coverage to 12 months. She also spoke about the child tax credit, the work to remove lead from pipes, broadband access, police reform and racial bias in home appraisals.
She talked about AKA's work to raise millions of dollars for HBCUs and the Biden administration's investment in HBCUs.
"As the first Vice President to be a graduate of an HBCU, I'm particularly proud of that."
Big applause when the VP mentions the recent confirmation of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
"Thank you sorors, thank you. Because this is the progress that you fought for."
"We must do it again this November," she says to applause.
She called for the removal of the liability shield for gun manufacturers and a renewed assault weapons ban.
"The road to get there, to see it through, is not going to be easy. It's never been easy."
"These so-called leaders in this state and other places across the country making it more difficult for people to vote."
"So-called leaders who are in the process of punishing doctors and criminalizing women who want to make decisions for themselves."
"We need two additional U.S. senators" to protect voting rights, abortion rights, she says, and people up and down the ballot to protect those rights.
She calls on AKA to "continue to activate" and organize coalitions around the country.
Full recording: 
VP ended at 12:23 and the pool is holding until the roundtable on reproductive rights. She shook some hands and left the stage to meet with sorors.
Pool entered the small conference room at 1:44 and the VP was already seated at the head of three tables in a rectangle formation, with Sec. Becerra to her left and five other panelists.
"We collectively agree, as do most Americans, there are some things the government should just not interfere with."
"Many of us also agree that this is not an issue that requires any person to change their faith, or their belief system."
Becerra thanked the VP for coming to Florida where there are people fighting for reproductive rights.
"We at HHS hope to put in action the instructions you and the president have given us."
Otter: 
Pool was led out at 1:51 as Dr. Schickler began to speak.
Background and participants, from a WH Official:
The VP's motorcade rolled away from the convention center at 3:08. Pool did not see the VP enter her vehicle.
She took a photo with her local team for this stop at the airport and then boarded AF2 here in Orlando at 3:26.
Wheels up for Tampa shortly as of 3:36.
Background on the next stop from a WH official:
AF2 was wheels down at 4:15 at MacDill Air Force Base here in Tampa.
The VP deplaned at 4:29, having changed clothes into a black pantsuit and black heels.
She walked straight over to a large hangar to greet about 3-4 dozen service members, lined up in front of a U.S. Air Force plane. She spoke to them for about 10 minutes but pool was at a distance and could not hear her remarks. She shook the individual hands of about 5 men and women before pool was ushered away, talking to them one on one. Will Tweet photo.
The VP was greeted here at the base by:
Pool is now holding for short ride to CENTCOM headquarters. The next pool report may be delayed as phones are not allowed inside.
The VP entered CENTCOM headquarters at 5:07, led by generals Clarke and Kurilla and saluted by troops from various parts of the military.
She then entered a secure conference room and sat at a large semi circle desk with military leadership to her left and right. She gave remarks but phones were not allowed inside. A screen in front of her showed photos of missions and troops and read: "US Special Operations Command / Command Brief to Vice President of the United States"
Some quotes and notes:
The VP said she was "pleased to be here on the ground with you" and that she was "here to highlight and uplift the work of CENTCOM and SOCOM" which are "critical to our national security."
The US military is the "strongest and best fighting force in the world."
She said she would speak with military leaders about their current missions and other additional resources they might need. She thanked the families of service members.
She said this visit to CENTCOM was especially key as POTUS is in the Middle East and she said the purpose of that trip was to make clear the role that the US plays in that part of the world.
She said it was key because of shipping lanes and energy resources.
She mentioned that it was the 35th anniversary of SOCOM and called them our "quiet professionals."
She also said their work was key in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, especially training Ukrainian soldiers.
"We talk about you guys all the time" she said of the military — in the situation room, in the Oval Office.
"We could not follow through" on US commitments and relationships "without you" and she said their mission remains critical.
After her private briefing with commanders, VP later entered their operations center at 6:04. Computers and desks on multiple levels lined the room.
Screens on the wall showed maps of the Middle East showing shipping routes, with one member of CENTCOM staff pointing out to pool China and Russia's proximity to their operation area. He also pointed out the key energy shipping lanes like Suez Canal and Strait of Hormuz.
A "First Alert" screen showed updates such as violence in the Middle East, road closures in Baghdad, and ISIS news.
A clock on the wall showed the time in Tampa, Zulu, Qatar/Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan.
When VP entered, She shook some service members' hands before heading to the middle of the room to stand between the CENTCOM and SOCOM commanders before pool was ushered out. She was going to get a tour of the operations center.
She exited headquarters about 15 minutes later.
On the tarmac, VP shook hands of the generals and leaders here (same greeters as before) and boarded AF2 at 6:30.
Wheels up for JBA shortly.
Adding details to previous report from a WH official:
AF2 was wheels down at JBA at 8:45 PM, just as the sun was setting here.
The VP deplaned at 8:57 and she waved to press before turning to walk over and board M2, lifting off at 9:05.
Greeter: Lt. Colonel Richard "Rick" Hulun, 89th Maintenance Group Deputy