Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint Dr. Mitchel Berger, Dr. Carol Brown, and Dr. Elizabeth Jaffee to the President's Cancer Panel. The three are distinguished members of the scientific, research, and public health communities appointed by the President to advise him on barriers to and opportunities for progress in reducing the burden of cancer.
In addition, First Lady Jill Biden, Cabinet Members, and Biden-Harris Administration leadership are holding a Cancer Cabinet meeting today to unveil priority actions and new members, advancing the President's vision for ending cancer as we know it. The Cancer Cabinet has identified priorities to: (1) close the screening gap, (2) understand and address environmental exposure, (3) decrease the impact of preventable cancers, (4) bring cutting edge research through the pipeline to patients and communities, and (5) support patients and caregivers. This Cancer Cabinet also added the Departments of Commerce and Labor, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the White House Gender Policy Council.
Since the Cancer Cabinet's prior meeting, additional steps that mark progress for the millions of Americans facing a cancer diagnosis have been announced by the Biden-Harris Administration including: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issuing more than $200 million in grants to advance national cancer prevention and control through cancer screening programs reaching every state, U.S. territories, and tribal organizations; the Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services (CMS) launching a new model to deliver patient-centered care that improves outcomes and reduces the cost of cancer care; the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) announcing the extension of a program to fast-track cancer immunotherapy applications; the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) pursuing steps to significantly reduce tobacco-related morbidity and mortality in the United States as part of cancer prevention efforts, and announcing that for the first time in over 50 years, the White House will host a Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health and release a national, whole-of-government strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-release disease (which includes some cancers) this September.
In February, President Biden reignited the Cancer Moonshot with renewed White House leadership and new ambitious goals: to reduce the death rate from cancer by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years, and improve the experience of people and their families living with and surviving cancer – and, by doing this and more, 
. In March, in his first State of the Union Address, President Biden highlighted the Cancer Moonshot as part of his Unity Agenda for the nation. The White House convened the Cancer Cabinet to establish a prioritized agenda across government including the development of new interagency programs and collaborations and announced 
.
To add your story, ideas, or new actions and collaborations, engage with us at: 
.
President Biden selected 
, a volunteer panel of experts who advise the President on how to use the resources of the federal government, particularly through the cancer research program, to make progress for people facing a cancer diagnosis and to reduce the burden of cancer on the American population:
When President Biden re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot, he announced seven pillars that define how we know cancer today to provide a shared agenda on which to make progress. This includes possibilities for progress in cancer early detection, prevention, equity, precision medicine, rare and childhood cancer, supporting patients and caregivers, and learning from patients. The Cancer Cabinet outlined the following priority actions on which agencies are working together and through their own programming to make progress on this vision for ending cancer as we know it.
Cancer can be overwhelming to any person or family and gaps in support can lead to gaps in quality care. The Biden-Harris Administration seeks to make the experience around cancer – from screening, to getting a diagnosis, to treatment, care and survivorship – easier on those living with cancer and their caregivers. That means supporting people as they navigate through these steps, making it easier for people to access screening and diagnostics, bringing trials and quality care closer to home, providing patients and caregivers with the data and knowledge they need to make informed care decisions, and giving people with cancer and the people who care for them a seat at the table to improve our oncology system.
Today, President Biden's vision for an all-of-government response to the goals of the Cancer Moonshot expands to include 
. This new leadership brings new capacity from, for example, the Department of Labor to support patients and caregivers with knowledge and resources regarding their rights to take time related to a cancer diagnosis as well as advancing a regulatory agenda to further protect workers in different settings. The Department of Commerce brings new perspectives and capabilities to speed innovation through the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and the advanced manufacturing and research capabilities of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). NASA's expertise in radiation and extreme environment provides the ability to support ground-breaking research, including on the International Space Station, expanding the tools we have to find new approaches to prevent, detect, and treat cancer.
Additional Cancer Cabinet announcements to support progress as part of the Cancer Moonshot include:
To reduce barriers to getting a colonoscopy, 
 that a follow-up colonoscopy to an at-home test be considered, for coverage purposes, a "preventive service," which means that cost sharing would be waived for people with Medicare. Additionally, Medicare is proposing to cover the service for individuals 45 years of age and above, in line with the newly-lowered age recommendation (down from age 50) from the United States Preventative Services Task Force. Colon and rectal cancer were the second-leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States in 2020, with higher colorectal cancer death rates for Black and American Indian and Alaskan Native individuals.
When President Biden re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot in February 2022, he announced a whole- of-government response, including the formation of a Cancer Cabinet to be convened by the White House, bringing together departments, agencies, and other White House components across government to address cancer on multiple fronts. Initially, these included the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Energy (DOE), Department of Agriculture (USDA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Cancer Institute (NCI), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), Domestic Policy Council (DPC), Office of the First Lady (OFL), Office of the Vice President (OVP), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office of Legislative Affairs (OLA), Office of Public Engagement (OPE), along with additional members, as needed, to help establish and make progress on Cancer Moonshot goals.