Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings from the White House!

I'm your print pooler today. The weather is a balmy 79 degrees and the sky is cloudy. Your pooler has obtained his COVID test per customary practice.

Below is the public schedule for POTUS. Your pooler will let you know if anything changes.

 




 
 


 
 
 




 


Pool was escorted at 2:17 into the Roosevelt Room, where U.S. officials, including Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, Brian Deese and Ali Zaidi, were seated along with business representatives from South Korea.

POTUS appeared on a TV screen moments later, wearing a navy tie and suit, consistent his isolation practices after his COVID diagnoses. The meeting began with SK representatives promoting the business investments in the U.S. they were announcing that day.

Listen:



POTUS- "As someone once said, this is a big deal," making a tongue-and-cheek to the comments he said was caught mouthing to President Obama on the Affordable Care Act.

POTUS ticked off the impact of the SK impact, saying it's "further proof American is open for business."

"Today's announcement is further proof American is back to working with our allies." - POTUS

"I'm feeling great. I hope it come across that way…I hope I look as good as I usually do, which is not that good," POTUS joked.

Chey Tae-Won began the remarks, announcing $22 billion in new investment in the United States in science industry, which he said represented more than $30 billion in total.

Chey broke down the fund allocation, including investments in a Texas factory with Ford Motor Company and green energy announcement.

After an exchange with Chey on POTUS not being able to be physically present, POTUS joked, "I can walk out to the balcony and holler at you."

"We're continue to continue to invest in the education side of this, so you can have the best trained and best equipped workers," POTUS said. (Immediately after this remark, barking could hear from then feed off screen, presumably from Commander. Those present in the room laughed.)

No U.S. official made public remarks. As wranglers sought to escort pool out, a reporter started to shout a question, but was unable to finish before the feed for POTUS cut out.

Pool was escorted out at 2:36.

From the White House:

The President will meet virtually with the Chairman and Principal Owner of the Republic of Korea (ROK) conglomerate SK Group to discuss the company's robust investments in American manufacturing and jobs. Participating in the meeting with the President:

Secretary Gina Raimondo, U.S. Department of Commerce 
 Brian Deese, Director of the National Economic Council 
 Ali Zaidi, Deputy National Climate Advisor 
 Chey Tae-Won, Chairman of SK Group 
 Jeong Joon, Vice Chairman and CEO 
 Jung Ho Park, CEO and Vice Chairman of SK Square 
 Seung-June Oh, President SK Signet America 
 Joon Choi, Senior Vice President, SK Hynix 


From the White House: The press briefing will now start at 3:30pm ET. 


The briefing with Karine Jean-Pierre began at 3:49. Brian Deese followed and began speaking shortly after her opening remarks.


The White House called a travel-photo lid at 5:12.

There's been some confusion about press access for the virtual event. Here is info forwarded to me.

From the White House: Please use the following link to register for the ADA event.

POTUS remarks are pre-recorded but the event is being livestreamed.



Thanks! 