Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from Indianapolis, where it's 77 degrees and partly cloudy, and where the VP is expected to arrive at Indianapolis International Airport around 10:30 am ahead of meeting with state legislators and leaders to discuss the "fight to protect reproductive rights."

VP's arrival coincides with the start of the Indiana General Assembly's special session to debate a near-total ban on abortion, and the day is expected to include rolling protests and demonstrations from thousands.

I'm your print pooler for the day's events, which includes opening remarks at 11:30 a.m. at the Indiana State Library.

Greeters at IND and traveling guests on AF2 with the VP include:

Traveling Guests:

—Kate Swain Smith, Advisor to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor
 —Rep. Andre Carson (D-IN-7)

Greeters:

—Major Brittany S. Carter, Commander, 89th Communications Squadron
 —Kate Swain Smith, Advisor to the Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor
 —Congressman Andre Carson

Please reach out with any questions.


AF2 landed at 10:12 a.m. at Indianapolis International Airport. VP briefly gaggled about Indiana's special session and provided audio. Will send later. Motorcade is rolling to Indiana State Museum.


Indianapolis Mayor Joe Hogsett welcomed VP. VP’s brief remarks are linked here, with a hat tip to CNN's Jasmine Wright.

No major news in them.



VP arrived at Indiana State Library at 10:39 a.m.

On Background from a White House Official:

Today, July 25, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene state legislators in Indianapolis, Indiana to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights. At the roundtable, the Vice President will convey the Administration’s commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, including abortion access, and will encourage the legislators to continue fighting to protect reproductive rights.

Her visit coincides with the first day of the Indiana state legislature’s special legislative session where they will consider bills that further restrict reproductive rights. Vice President Harris has spent her career fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing of women, and remains a vocal advocate of protecting reproductive rights.

Meeting Speakers:
 Rep. Phil GiaQuinta, Indiana House Minority Leader
 Sen. Greg Taylor, Indiana Senate Minority Leader
 Rep. Cherrish Pryor, Indiana House Democratic Floor Leader
 Rep. Carey Hamilton, Indiana House Assistant Democratic Leader
 Sen. Jean Breaux, Indiana State Senator
 Congressman Andre Carson (D-07)

The Vice President previously convened state legislators to discuss reproductive rights in the following places:



At the top of the open press portion of VP's roundtable, which lasted approximately 5 minutes, VP made the following remarks:



"This has created a healthcare crisis, and as has been said, Indiana has already been on the forefront of this very issue," Harris said, nodding to the case of the 10-year-old Ohio rape victim who crossed state lines to receive an abortion from Dr. Caitlin Bernard in Indianapolis.

Harris talked about her experience as a former prosecutor tasked with prosecuting crimes against women and children, including sex crimes.

"The idea that in some states, after a child or a woman or a man, but in particular in this case of an abortion, a woman or a child would have endured such an act of violence and then to suggest that she would not have the autonomy and authority to make a decision about what happens to her is outrageous."

In her opening remarks, Harris also said: "I would also say that on this issue, one does not have to abandon your faith or your belief to agree that the government should not be making this decision for her. And individuals should be able to choose based on their personal beliefs and the dictates of their faith. But the government should not be telling an individual what to do especially as it relates to one of the most intimate and personal decisions a woman could make."



"On this day, where Indiana is the first state since the Dobbs decision to convene a special session to propose a law that includes, based on what has been proposed, what will essentially be a ban on abortion for women, because to be clear—it may be some people need to actually learn how a woman's body works—when you know how a woman's body works, you will understand that the parameters that are being imposed mean that for the vast majority of women by the time she realizes she is pregnant, she will effectively be prohibited from having access to reproductive health care that would allow them to choose what happens to her."



"The President has signed an executive order to protect women's access to abortion medication and has taken action to protect the constitutional right to interstate travel."

Full audio of VP's opening remarks: 


Roundtable remarks from other participants here: 


Your pooler returned to press hold following the VP's opening remarks. Harris is expected to travel back to IND after the roundtable.
 [
]

VP's motorcade was rolling to airport at 2:45.


VP was wheels up back to JBA at 3:24 p.m.

Signing off,