Pool Reports by 
, 




Greetings! I'll be your in-town pooler today. I wanted to flag today's schedule, including the afternoon event at South Court.

I'm trying to find out if there will be a livestream for the 12:30 p.m. virtual remarks to the NOBLE conference. I've reached out to the White House and the organizers on this and hope to have clarity soon.

Separately, the White House says the portion of the 2:15 p.m. event that will include the pool will stream live at 
.

The White House also released a letter today from Dr. O'Connor here:



Here's the schedule:

 


 
 




 


Update:

I'm told the remarks to the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Executives (NOBLE) conference were taped. Here's a link where I believe it will air:



I'm also trying to get clarity on whether it will be available at 
 


Hi Everyone - I am now told that President Biden's remarks to NOBLE will air later this afternoon. Updated timing to come.

I will keep you posted on timing/links to livestreams. Thanks. - Ken 


The pool is now gathering at 2:45 p.m. for President Biden's virtual meeting with CEOs and labor leaders on the importance of passing the CHIPS Act. The pool spray will be held at the South Court Auditorium. The remarks will air at 


The White House says the press briefing, which was scheduled for 3:10 p.m., will now start shortly after the president's remarks on CHIPS. 


The White House issued a 2 minute warning for the CHIPS event. 


President Biden opened with brief virtual remarks on the importance of passing the CHIPS Act at 3:01 p.m., calling it an "important and timely discussion." He was dressed in a dark suit jacket, a light blue dress shirt and a blue-striped tie. It was not immediately clear which room he was appearing from the White House residence, but the background included an American and Presidential flag, a partially obscured fireplace and a table lined with photos.

NEC Director Brian Deese helped lead the discussion that touched upon the national security and economic importance of the CHIPS Act.

Jim Taiclet, the Chairman, President and CEO of Lockheed Martin, told the president about the importance of having a "robust, secure supply" of microprocessors for national security reasons. He noted the president's visit earlier in the year to the Javelin production plant in Alabama.

At one point during the discussion, the president said he had been impressed by the workers at the Alabama plant and asked Mr. Taiclet about how passing the legislation would help ensure that systems stay on the leading edge.

The president also heard from Defense Deputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks, who spoke of the U.S.'s "tech competition" with China, and White House National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan, who spoke of the importance of maintaining "our innovation edge."Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo told the president that it was important for Congress to get the legislation "over the finish line and onto your desk this week. It's vital." She noted that the U.S. remains behind the rest of the world in the production of chips and is "utterly dependent upon Taiwan" for its chips supply. "Chips are a cornerstone technology that underpin our entire economy," Ms. Raimondo said. She said it was "not a subsidy for big companies" but about investing in U.S. workers.

Geoff Martha, Chairman and CEO of Medtronic, spoke of the importance of semiconductors to the medical technology industry - from things like insulin pumps to pacemakers and ventilators. He also spoke of the need for expanded research and development. The meeting is still ongoing, more details to come:

Participating in the President's Virtual Meeting on the CHIPS Act:

Administration Participants (In-Person):

• Secretary Gina Raimondo, U.S. Department of Commerce
 • Deputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks, U.S. Department of Defense
 • Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the NEC
 • Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs

Private Sector Participants (Virtual):

• Geoff Martha, Chairman and CEO, Medtronic
 • Tom Linebarger, Chairman and CEO, Cummins
 • Jim Taiclet, Chairman, President, and CEO, Lockheed Martin

Labor Participants (Virtual):

• Mark McManus, General President, The United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Canada (UA)
 • Christopher Shelton, President, Communications Workers of America (CWA) 


The CHIPS discussion continued. Tom Linebarger, Chairman and CEO of Cummins, said the shortage of semiconductors made it more difficult to meet customer demand. He said the company is frequently forced to pay as much as 10-times the regular cost "just to make sure that we can keep trucks on the road."

Chris Shelton, the president of the Communications Workers of America, told the president that passing the bill would help create jobs and strengthen the U.S. ability to compete with China. "This bill is a key part of rebuilding our manufacturing sector as a whole," Mr. Shelton said.

Mr. Biden asked Mr. Linebarger about the use of semiconductors in electric vehicles and charging stations and the importance of the legislation to those technologies. Mr. Linebarger said the industry is behind because of the lack of available semiconductors but it offered a big opportunity for the U.S. "We need to invest now. Time is running out for us to get to the lead," he said.

"When I think about climate change, I think about jobs," said Mr. Biden, who also asked Mr. Shelton about Davis-Bacon prevailing wage provisions.

Mr. Biden referenced Intel's major semiconductor investment in Columbus, Ohio. "It's going to create a whole lot of jobs."

The president then wrapped up the meeting by talking of the importance of passing the bill for the nation's economic competitiveness. "Congress must pass this bill as soon as possible so we can get it to my desk," Mr. Biden said. He pointed to both the economic imperative of making semiconductors in the U.S. as well as the national security implications, again referencing his previous trip to the Alabama plant. He framed it as a competition with China, which he said was watching the legislation closely and actively lobbying businesses against the bill.

"America invented the semiconductor. It's time we bring it home," Mr. Biden said. He also spoke of the guardrails contained in the legislation. "We're not going to allow these companies to use these funds to buy back stock or issue dividends," he said.

"We're close. We're close. So let's get it done. So much depends on it," Mr. Biden said.

As he was wrapping up his remarks, the president answered a few shouted questions. Asked how he was feeling as he deals with his Covid-19 diagnosis: "I'm feeling great. I've had two full nights of sleep," Mr. Biden said, adding that his dog woke him up this morning. "I'm feeling good. My voice is still raspy."

He said he hoped to be back at work in-person at the end of this week but said he was keeping a full schedule.

Asked if he would speak to China's Xi Jinping this week, Mr. Biden said: "That's my expectation."

He was also asked about the economy and the possibility of the U.S. facing a recession: "God willing I don't think we're going to see a recession."

Pool escorted from the South Court Auditorium at 3:57 p.m.

We expect the daily press briefing to begin shortly. 


The White House advises that the POTUS remarks to the NOBLE conference will air here shortly.

Here is the link:



The White House says these are other online locations where you’ll be able to find clips:




The White House says the press briefing will begin at 4:35 p.m. 


Two-minute warning to the start of the press briefing. 


The press briefing with White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Dr. Ashish Jha, White House Covid-19 Response Coordinator, began at 4:36 p.m.

The briefing ended at 5:32 p.m. 


The White House declared a lid at 5:39 p.m. Have a great night. 