Pool Reports by 
, 




Hi all!

I’m your pool reporter for today.

In case you haven’t seen, POTUS has tested negative for COVID twice. White House physician Dr. Kevin O’Connor’s note can be found here:



POTUS’ public schedule has been updated to the below:



In the morning, the President will deliver remarks. These remarks in the Rose Garden will be open press.



 
 


 July 26, 2022


 


In the morning, the President will receive the President’s Daily Brief virtually. This meeting will be closed press.





 






 


On background from a WH official: The President will give remarks after his negative test about a case that was mild thanks to the tools this administration has worked hard to make available to the American people. He will discuss the progress we have made against covid and encourage eligible Americans to get vaccinated and boosted. 


Pool was called to gather for POTUS' remarks at 11:20 a.m.

It will be livestreamed here: 
 


A motley group of WH advisers and staff, including National Economic Council director Brian Deese and infrastructure coordinator Mitch Landrieu, as well as COVID czar Dr. Ashish Jha, has gathered in the Rose Garden to watch POTUS speak from a podium and teleprompter in 84F Washington, DC heat.


POTUS emerged from the WH residence at 11:42 a.m. Aides cheered his arrival. 


POTUS concluded his remarks at 11:52 a.m.

He took his mask off to speak.

He started by saying: "My symptoms were mild, my recovery was quick, and I'm feeling great."

At one point, he stumbled over the word "Paxlovid," the treatment he received after his COVID diagnosis.

He took no questions. 


Lunch lid has been called until 2:30 p.m. 


From WH official: The press briefing will now start at 3:30pm. 


From WH: The press briefing has been moved to 3:50. National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will be joining Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre in the briefing. 


Livestream: 
 


The briefing started at 3:58 p.m. 


The briefing ended at 4:58 p.m. 


A lid was called at 6:37 p.m.

Have a good night! 