Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House. I will be your pooler for today's VP Harris event about abortion rights with state lawmakers.
We are holding in EEOB for the event.
The event will be live-streamed at 
 so I will not be sending quotes, but I will send along any relevant atmospheric details.
Here is some background from her office
Today, July 8, 2022, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene state legislative leaders from Indiana, Florida, South Dakota, Nebraska, and Montana who are fighting on the frontlines to protect reproductive rights. All 5 states have Republican-controlled state legislatures and Republican governors, and may soon call special sessions to pass abortion bans. Legal abortion may soon end in Indiana, Nebraska, and Montana – Indiana's special session is already scheduled to begin July 25. South Dakota and Florida have already banned abortion – South Dakota from fertilization, and Florida from 15 weeks of pregnancy – but both states may convene special sessions to potentially pass further restrictions.
During the meeting, the Vice President will convey the Administration's commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, and she will encourage the legislators to continue defending reproductive rights and freedoms at the state level.
The convening follows meetings about reproductive rights that the Vice President held with health care providers, faith leaders, constitutional law and privacy experts, advocates, and Attorneys General. The meeting will take place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office and will be livestreamed at 
.


We're still holding at the base of the stairs, but the VP's office shares this speaking order:
The pool was let into the VP's ceremonial office at 4:02 pm. She began her remarks as soon as we were in position.
She is at the head of the table with Julie Chavez Rodriguez to her right. The five lawmakers are around the table and other staff is lining the room.
Remarks ongoing.
You saw it live.
Harris spoke for about 5 minutes before hearing from the lawmakers around the room.
As each spoke, she gave them looks of rapt attention and nodded her head along to what they said, sometimes murmuring an "mmhmm." She occasionally took a note. Pool was ushered out without getting any questions.
There was a shouted question about supporting a public health emergency but I'm not sure if it was audible.
One thing that likely wasn't audible on the feed was some sporadic random sounds of cheering and applause from elsewhere in the EEOB or outside perhaps that the pool could hear while Harris give her opening remarks. It stopped before the lawmakers started speaking.
That's all from me! I tweeted a few pictures @talkopan and holler if you have any questions.