Pool Reports by 
, 
The pool is heading shortly to the Roosevelt Room, where President Biden will make remarks on abortion rights, and sign the executive order on access to reproductive health care services. If you're receiving this, you should also have that in your inbox.
The remarks will be livestreamed at 
 so quotes via pool report will be limited.
Pool was brought into the Roosevelt Room just before noon.
Awaiting the President. 2 min warning at 12:02pm
From the press office:
Jen Klein, Co-Chair & Executive Director of the White House Gender Policy Council, will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.
The briefing will commence shortly after the conclusion of the President's remarks.
President Biden entered the Roosevelt Room at 12:04pm.
His remarks are streaming live.
President Biden denounced the Dobbs ruling and sought to rebut the conservative majority's reasoning and rationales for overturning Roe v. Wade.
The Supreme Court in Dobbs made a "terrible, extreme and I think totally wrong-headed decision to overturn Rov v. Wade... This was not a decision driven by the Constitution [...or] by history."
He criticized the majority for reading the Constitution as frozen in the mindset of the 1800s, when women didn't even have the right to vote.
He predicted record turnout by women voters to reclaim rights taken from them by the Supreme Court.
The fastest way to restore reproductive rights is for Congress to codify those rights, he said.
Cites rape of a 10 year old girl who had to go to another state "already traumatized" to obtain an abortion. "Ten years old!...A 10 year old girl should be forced to give birth to a rapist's child?" What could be more extreme, he said.
He warned that extremist Republicans even want to impose a national ban on abortion. As long as he's president such a bill would be vetoed, he said.
Biden's prepared remarks still underway at 12:17p. He is now describing his executive order.
President Biden's prepared remarks in the Roosevelt Room lasted from 12:04pm to 12:21pm.
He warned that the Dobbs decision threatens all sorts of privacy rights beyond reproductive rights.
He insisted the right of privacy is "yes, yes, embedded in our Constitution."
He then sat at the small desk beside the lectern and signed the order with one pen that he handed to Vice President Harris.
Q&A begins with question on assassination of Japan's forme prime minister Abe.
He said he will stop at the Japanese embassy en route CIA this afternoon to offer condolences.
Called the current Japanese PM "a very solid guy" and doesn't expect any destabilizing effect.
Asked second question as he departed at 12:24 he said on China tariffs: "I haven't made that decision."
Check quotes against transcript or replay the video.
Press briefing up next.
In attendance for the President's remarks in the Roosevelt Room:
The Vice President
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
US Department of Justice Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco
And, we expect the press briefing to begin around 12:40 or 12:45.
[
]
The presidential motorcade began rolling from the South Lawn at 1:50pm. First stop is the Japanese embassy for a condolence stop Fter the assassination of former prime Minister Abe. Thence to CIA headquarters.
For posterity: it is hazy and humid. The scent of BBQ that infiltrated the press area today also hangs over the White House.
The president arrived at the Japanese ambassador's residence (not the embassy) at 2:02p after an uneventful motorcade along upper Embassy Row, past the Naval Observatory and National Cathedral and farther along Massachusetts Ave to Western, passing American University.
Pool is in a hallway next to a koi pond with a view through two sets of windows to the desk set up with a condolence book. Two vases of flowers. The flag of Japan to the right of the chair.
At 2:06 the president placed a small bouquet on the desk and sat down. The Japanese ambassador stood over his right shoulder as he wrote a condolence message after the assassination if Abe.
The president remained seated at the desk at the Japanese ambassador's residence from 2:06p to 2:10. He seemed to concentrating and writing the entire time. When he rose, he turned to the Japanese ambassador. They shook hands. POTUS put his left arm on the ambassador's right elbow.
Everyone was indoors. Overlooking outdoor koi pond.
Potus message in next pool report.
This is the note President Biden wrote at the Japanese ambassador's residence on the death of former prime minister Abe.
In case it didn't come through on email. Potus condolence note on Abe assassination. Feel free to use these images as any other pool report.
The president entered the CIA at 2:26p after an uneventful motorcade across the Chain Bridge, folkowing his visit to the Japanese ambassador's residence. Pulled to a stop next to the VIP parking lot at 2:29.
Pool will not have access to phones or email etc while we are at Langley.
Will effort a pool report soonest.
From press office:
The President visited the Japanese Ambassador's residence to personally offer condolences on behalf of the government and people of the United States to the government and people of Japan for the tragic shooting death of former Prime Minster Abe Shinzo. The President was met by Ambassador Tomita Koji, to whom he handed a personal hand-written message for Prime Minister Kishida Fumio. The President also signed the condolence book.
The president spoke for nearly 14 minutes in the lobby of CIA headquarters. He walked out with CIA director Burns at 4:11pm and the motorcade rolled at 4:15.
Will effort quotes ASAP now that I am reunited with technology.
President Biden and CIA director William Burns were introduced at 3:52. Standing ovation as they walked in from the back of the room and stood in front of the wall with 139 stars, one for each CIA member killed protecting the country.
Here's the audio and transcript:
I'll send selected quotes soon.
From press office:
The President met with intelligence community leadership and CIA officers to thank them for their service and sacrifices.
Attendees for the President's remarks commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Central Intelligence Agency included approximately 200 employees of the CIA.
The president is back at the White House. Pool watched him enter the Oval Office at 4:31.
CIA stuff, and more to come:
Jake Sullivan and DNI Avril Haines were seated in the front row for Biden's remarks. So was CIA director Bill Burns after his 2-minute intro thanking the president. "Your presence today means a great deal to the men and women of this agency," Burns said
Biden noted that this was his third time addressing CIA personnel from in front of the wall of stars honoring CIA members killed in the line of duty. He recalled that he was named to the Senate intelligence committee early in his career so he's been involved with CIA for 52 of its 75 years.
"You're an incredible group of people."
Commends on Abe assassination, which he called the "horrific, shocking killing of my friend Prime Minister Abe." e expressed "confidence in the strength of Japan's democracy" but said that "This attack has a profound impact on the psyche of the Japanese people."
More tk
We have a good weather call.
POTUS will lift from the South Lawn at 7:15pm. The standby poolers who would have enjoyed a short AF1 trip to Delaware before enduring a long bus ride back tonight are off the hook. Whew.
Gather time for open press Marine One departure is 7:05 at the Palm Room doors.
There is a dinner lid until 7pm.
Passing on from the press office, attributable to a White House official:
Today, President Biden called Elizabeth Whelan, the sister of Paul Whelan who has been wrongfully detained by Russia since 2018. President Biden reaffirmed that he is committed to bringing Paul home as soon as possible, and the U.S. government will continue its efforts to secure the release of Paul as well as Brittney Griner and all other Americans who are held hostage or wrongfully detained around the world.
The U.S. government will continue to be in regular contact with Paul's family, and with the families of other Americans held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad, to provide support and assistance and keep them updated on efforts to secure the release of their loved ones.
President Biden emerged alone from the Oval Office at 7:12 pm. Still in suit and tie. He waved to the pool but kept walking to Marine One and boarded without stopping to speak with the press.
He snapped a salute, ducked his head and boarded at 7:14.
Aides followed a moment later.
The president is heading to Rehoboth Beach. Handing off to the out-of-town pool awaiting him there.
Wheels up at 7:17.
Note the tail rotor looks unusual tonight. It is black with red and white tips.
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Rehoboth Beach, DE:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Marine 1 looped in from the setting sun, turned south to fly over the beach and set down on an empty parking lot at the Gordon's Pond area of Cape Henlopen State Park at 2010.
President Biden stepped off the helicopter at 2013 and walked to the waiting SUV.
At 2015 his motorcade is underway.
The pool van was not in the presidential motorcade, but the White House press office informed pool at 2028 that the president arrived at the Bidens' beach home following the brief drive.
That is all for today.