Access to high-speed internet is no longer a luxury. Still, too many families go without high-speed internet because of the cost or have to cut back on other essentials to make their monthly internet service payments. That's why President Biden and Vice President Harris worked with Democrats, Republicans, and Independents to include the Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which 
 to expand internet for all — to ensure that every American has access to reliable and affordable high-speed internet.
The ACP, administered by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), provides eligible households up to $30/month (or $75/month on Tribal lands) off internet bills, as well as a one-time $100 discount off a connected device. To further lower costs, in May, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced commitments from internet service providers across the country to offer high-speed plans that are fully covered by the ACP—meaning millions of working families can now get high-speed internet without paying a dime. They simultaneously launched 
—a one-stop shop to check eligibility and sign up.
Today in North Carolina, Vice President Harris is announcing that, 
 
The Administration's efforts increased the rate of ACP enrollments by about 35%.
To build on this success, today the Vice President called on the nation's governors to join the Administration's enrollment drive, sending them letters describing key steps they can take to boost enrollment in their states. For example, today, the State of North Carolina committed to email 5 million households to let them know they can lower their internet bill by visiting GetInternet.gov to check eligibility and sign up.
: The Vice President's call to action today builds on the Administration's existing successful partnerships with state and local governments to spread the word. For example:
: In addition to working with state and local partners, the Administration is using every tool in its toolbox to get the word out—including communicating directly with households that are automatically eligible for ACP due to their participation in other federal government programs. For example:
: The Administration is also working with trusted community leaders to get the word out and enroll eligible households. For example:
The ACP is a key part of the Administration's 
 initiative and the largest internet affordability program in our nation's history. Experts estimate that 
—or nearly 40% of households in the country—qualify for the ACP either because their income is at or below 200% of the Federal Poverty Level, or because a member of the household meets one of the other criteria below:
As of now, more than 1,300 internet service providers participate in the program, and about 13 million households have signed up to receive the ACP benefit.
Households can check their eligibility for ACP, sign up, and find fully covered plans by visiting 
. They can also learn more by calling (877) 384-2575.
The ACP enrollment drive is just one part of the Biden-Harris Administration's 
 to ensure that every American has access to reliable and affordable high-speed internet. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides a $65 billion investment in high-speed internet access—on top of 
 in funding for high-speed, affordable internet provided by the American Rescue Plan that is currently being deployed across the nation.