Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on this glorious (sunny, 83) Fourth. Pool will muster soon for a ride to Ft McNair to meet POTUS and FLOTUS, due to land from Camp David at 1:30 pm, then motorcade back to WH.
Here's the full sked:
[
 by 9:00 AM]
Marine One landed at Fort McNair at 1:30 pm. Potus and FLOTUS stepped out at 134 pm went straight to the Beast. Potus took no questions from pool. Son Hunter, baby Beau, and wife Melissa accompanied, and walked right past the pool toward their vehicle.
Potus in navy blazer, black pants; FLOTUS in blue blazer, white pants.
Motorcade rolling for WH at 1:38 pm.
Per WH, Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Fort McNair:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route White House
Motorcade arrived WH at 152 pm after uneventful ride. We stopped on the north side, along circular driveway. Pool could not see first couple entering the WH.
Sign held by bystander near entrance to Ft McNAir: Jews for Abortion Rights
Among bystanders en route were two women, one in Ukrainian dress, holding flags that were half American half Ukrainian.
Lunch lid called at 154 pm until 445 pm, except for those doing preset.
Pool is now gathering at 5:10 pm to go to South Lawn. POTUS remarks will be delayed beyond originally scheduled start time of 5:00 pm. I will provide update on timing when we know.
Remarks, when they happen, will go out live at 
Military families are enjoying a bbq picnic at tables across the South Lawn set with blue and red checked tablecloths.
As pool entered, a Military band was performing live rock music on a stage down the east side of the South Lawn.
Some guests are standing/crowding the rope line near the podium where Potus will speak. At 5:20 guests were asked to silence phones.
Soon after, another military band started playing a patriotic march.
Viewable on livestream --
From WH:
In attendance for the President and First Lady's 4th of July BBQ;
On the menu:
Speaking program:
• Navy Chaplain Lieutenant Chandler Irwin
• The First Lady
• The President
Performing following the President's remarks
• White Ford Bronco, DC-based 90's pop cover band
• Andy Grammer, multi-platinum country-pop song-writer and singer
First a prayer from military chaplain
Then Dr. Biden spoke, beginning at 529. Potus stood to the left, wearing aviators. She Wished all a happy Fourth of July.
Potus remarks began at 5:31.
Spotted in crowd: Hunter Biden, son Beau, wife Melissa.
National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan
Check against transcript:
"America is always a work in progress," Potus said.
We've always been tested, but we've never walked away.
America is a project that always says, "we're all in this together."
"Our economy is growing but not without pain…." He describes a nation whose freedoms are "under assault" both here and abroad.
Talk of guns begins at 5:36. "You all heard about what happened today."
"And each day we're reminded, there's nothing guaranteed about our democracy, nothing guaranteed about our way of life and we have to fight for it, defend it"
"I know many Americans look around today and see a divided country and are deeply worried about that fact. I understand. I believe we're more united that we are divided"
Speaks of American optimism.
Remarks end at 5:39. Military band plays God Bless America and other patriotic tunes as Potus works the rope line along edge of driveway, greets attendees, out of earshot of pool.
Potus is wearing blue blazer, white shirt, no tie
FLOTUS is wearing flowery dress, red shoes.
At 6:12 pm, Potus walked back up the driveway, went over to greet the chaplain and family, then went back into White House thru the South Portico door.
Also sighted at picnic: domestic policy adviser Susan Rice
Pool returned to the South Lawn at 7:15pm to view entertainment. Picnic-goers are seated on blankets in front of the stage (which is on the west side of south lawn, contrary to previous pool report). Andy Grammer, country-pop singer/songwriter, is performing.
At 7:27 pm, POTUS is heading toward the stage.
… at 7:30. Potus welcomes everyone to the White House. "Now I'm gonna hand it over to the boss," he says, introducing FLOTUS.
She invites Andy Grammer back to perform one more song. Which he does.
This is going out live at WhiteHouse.gov/live
After Grammer performs, FLOTUS thanks everyone for coming and introduces Potus.
Potus gives update on mass shooting in Illinois. Won't name the suspect.
"We've gotta get this under control"
Moment of silence for the families.
First couple left the stage at 7:37 pm.
And visiting with folks, out of pool's sight. The latest indication is that Potus will stay out here for the fireworks.
Local cover band White Ford Bronco is now performing.
Another SAO sighting on the lawn: Bruce Reed
He went back inside about 10 minutes ago, per a WH aide.
The first couple and family members stepped out onto the lower balcony, overlooking the south lawn, at 9:08 pm.
Fireworks began at 9:09.
Fireworks ended at 9:27 pm
About 30 people viewed fireworks with Potus and FLOTUS on the balcony. Potus walked amongst the guests and chatted during the show.
After fireworks ended, Biden gave a salute to the crowd. And little Beau gave the crowd a wave. Then Potus picked up Beau and swayed to the music. Hunter joined them after a bit, and after a few moments took Beau inside.
Then Dr Biden came back out and gave the crowd a wave.
Potus stepped back into the WH at 9:31.