Yesterday, in response to the Supreme Court's ruling in 
, President Biden issued a 
 on his unwavering commitment to "continue using lawful executive authority, including the EPA's legally-upheld authorities, to keep our air clean, protect public health, and tackle the climate crisis" and "tackle environmental injustice, create good-paying jobs, and lower costs for families building the clean energy economy."
Vice President Harris 
 that while "the Supreme Court's misguided ruling aims to take our country backward," through "executive authority, legislation, and state and local action, we must charge forward." National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy 
 that even though the Supreme Court is "siding with extreme special interests that want to dismantle our right to clean air," President Biden will "keep moving us forward, using every tool we can to tackle the climate crisis," and EPA Administrator Michael Regan 
 that the agency "will move forward using our Clean Air Act authority, consistent with the law, to set greenhouse gas standards for power plants."
 
[Justin Worland, 6/30/22]
Gina McCarthy, President Joe Biden's national climate advisor . . . was surprisingly optimistic—not that the ruling would go the Administration's way, but rather that the White House could chart a path to slash emissions even if it didn't. 
 To meet the White House's goals, she said, the Administration needs to get "creative" and find novel ways to galvanize the energy transition. That includes . . . the Administration's engagement with the private sector, use of its own purchasing power, and use of the Defense Production Act to accelerate the production of domestic clean energy technology, she says.
 
[Interview, 6/30/22]
EPA Administrator Michael Regan: "Let me be clear. It doesn't take us out of the game. 
 . . . One tool that we will continue to look at is the authority that was in question with the Supreme Court. Again, that tool is still available. We have just lost some flexibility there . . . But it does not prevent us from continuing to make progress. And so we will have to be vigilant in terms of focusing on climate change pollution . . . We're going to use every tool in the toolbox that we have to set and implement environmental standards that meet our obligation to protect all people and all communities from environmental harm."
 
[Interview, 6/30/22]
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy: "We are not giving up, we're actually going to double down. And we know that 
 who want to address this challenge of climate change and do it in a way that makes positive improvements in our lives."
 
[Interview, 7/01/22]
National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy: "The Court hasn't tied our hands on climate change . . . 
 . . . and more broadly, people should understand that this President didn't come into office thinking that EPA was the sole way in which we could move forward on climate change . . . He recognized that special interests for decades have been funded by fossil fuel companies to really wage a long-term campaign to strip away all these environmental protections that keep our water and our air clean . . . but that's why the President said we're not just going to rely on EPA, we're going to have a whole-of-government approach . . . we're leaving no stone unturned . . . to invest in a clean energy future."