Pool Reports by 
, 
Zachary Petrizzo here with THE DAILY BEAST. Good morning from the White House, where we have hit the in-town call time for the press pool – ahead of an 11:00 a.m. gather (at the Palm Room Doors) for the 11:15 a.m. Medal of Honor event in the East Room. Briefing at 3 p.m. this afternoon.
Press has assembled and is now in the East Room ahead of the Medal of Honor event at 11:15 a.m.
Two minute warning on the Medal of Honor event in the East Room.
President Biden up in East Room for Medal of Honor event.
"Today, we're setting the record straight," Biden said before sharing each recipient's story with attendees.
POTUS & FLOTUS have left the East Room.
FOX NEWS' Mark Meredith asked POTUS on the way out if he plans to visit 
 – Biden 
: "I'm not sure."
CNN's Jeremy Diamond also asked POTUS the same question, and there was no response.
A lunch lid has been called till the 3 p.m. briefing.
- The lunch lid remains in effect till 3 p.m. for the briefing. A Marine is posted up outside of the Oval Office.
- POTUS issued a proclamation – the WH flag has been lowered. (see below)
- Elsewhere outside the White House, vocal protesters could be heard near Lafayette Square during the lunch hour ahead of the rainstorm. Loosely assembled abortion rights activists roamed the area urging Biden to codify 
 --- while another group of anti-CCP demonstrators took 17th street by storm. " Stand up against China!" the permitted group yelled as they occupied and marched down the entire width of the street.
Reporters have begun to assemble in the White House briefing room for the 3 p.m. presser. Heading into the briefing, this MATT DRUDGE 
 sums up today's topline news best: 
The briefing has been PUSHED till 3:30 p.m….
Why does he type like this. Why
Two-minute warning on the presser….
 WH Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on 
: "As you know we completely disagree with Jeff Bezos…" Jean-Pierre dodged on Fox News reporter Peter Doocy's question on Hunter Biden: "I won't comment on alleged materials from the laptop."
"I responded to you," Jean-Pierre says on the 
 re: WH press access – when asked by Salon columnist Brian Karem, "we are coming into a different place of Covid…we are trying to see what the next steps are…also a priority of ours…"
"We are going to continue to defer to the committee," on the ongoing Jan 6th committee hearings….
The press briefing has wrapped up. Jean-Pierre: "The bipartisan bill is going to save some lives...but we need to do more work…." Declined to comment on 
: "Not going to comment," she said from the podium, "it is an open vacancy…."
A travel/photo lid has been called for the day by the White House. Have a great day.