Pool Reports by 
, 




Vice President Kamala Harris touched down in Charlotte on Air Force 2 at 11:20 under overcast skies.


On background from a White House official: "Vice President Harris tested negative for COVID-19. She was last with the President on Tuesday. She spoke to the President by phone this morning. The schedule will continue as planned. The Vice President will remain masked following the advice of the White House medical team."


Harris was greeted by North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper at 11:35 and gave a quick wave to the pool. The motorcade left for the Carole Hoefener Center in uptown Charlotte at 11:40.


The motorcade arrived at the Carole Hoefener Center in uptown Charlotte at 11:56.


Small groups of people waved and took pictures as the motorcade drove through uptown Charlotte.

Harris and Cooper met with three beneficiaries of the Affordable Connectivity Program at the Carole Hoefener Center. Harris thanked them for their stories. One beneficiary said the program could help connect seniors to their families and help them with online shopping. Family relationships were strained by the distance caused by the pandemic, he said.

Harris thanked Cooper for his leadership in promoting the program in North Carolina.


Andy Berke, Special Representative for Broadband, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) at the U.S. Department of Commerce took the stage at 1:03.

On the ACP: "We call this internet for all, and we mean it. No one can be left behind." -Berke


Harris said she spoke with President Joe Biden by phone on Thursday. "He is in good spirits," Harris said about Biden's positive Covid-19 test result. Biden is working from the White House residence, she said.


Vice President Kamala Harris ended her remarks at 1:43. She asked local and state leaders to help drive enrollment for the Affordable Connectivity Program, which provides discounted Internet for qualifying families and up to $100 off on laptops, tablets and desktop computers.

"Every person in our nation, no matter how much they earn, should be able to afford a high-speed internet plan," she said.

Harris will soon attend a roundtable with state legislators to talk about reproductive rights.

(attached to this email are a transcript of her remarks, as well as an audio file)


The roundtable on reproductive rights has begun.



Vice President Harris will convene more than 20 North Carolina state legislators and local leaders to discuss protecting reproductive rights. During the meeting with state leaders, the Vice President will convey the Administration’s commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, including abortion access, and the Vice President will encourage the legislators to continue fighting to protect reproductive rights. The Vice President convened state legislators from across the country on July 8, 2022 at the White House; on July 14, 2022 in Orlando, Florida; on July 16, 2022 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and on July 18, 2022 in Atlantic City, New Jersey.





Harris met with about a dozen state legislators, as well as the executive director of an abortion provider and the president and CEO of Planned Parenthood South Atlantic for the roundtable on reproductive rights.

Harris said the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Roe vs. Wade not only took away the right to abortion for millions of Americans, but puts other issues like access to contraceptives and gay marriage at stake.

She called on state legislators to support Gov. Roy Cooper, whose veto power allows Democrats to block anti-abortion legislation. Harris also called on Congress to codify the right to abortion.

Calla Hales, Co-owner and Executive Director of A Preferred Women's Health Center, said the number of protesters at abortion clinics has increased since the Dobbs decision. Hales said she worries increased anti-abortion rhetoric could lead to violence.

Jenny Black, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood South Atlantic, said North Carolina has already seen a spike in non-resident abortions since the Dobbs decision, as other Southern states have restricted access.

"We are experiencing a true public health crisis," Black said.


More to come later. Below are full quotes from Vice President Kamala Harris' visit to Charlotte:

From the roundtable:



The motorcade left the Carole Hoefener Center in uptown Charlotte at 3:32 for the airport.


CORRECTION: The motorcade is not heading to the airport yet.


Harris received a standing ovation during the 2022 international meeting of Omega Psi Phi, a historically Black fraternity.

She encouraged them to help elect two Democratic U.S. Senate candidates, Cheri Beasley in North Carolina and John Fetterman in Pennsylvania.

She also asked them to talk to their families about reproductive rights, saying abortion may not be the right choice for every family, but that it should not be the government’s choice.


Harris entered Air Force 2 at 4:22 under mostly clear skies. Wheels up at 4:35.


Final dispatch from the pool:



Andy Berke, Special Representative for Broadband, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), U.S. Department of Commerce:

Mayor Pro Tem Julie Eiselt (D-NC-Charlotte)

Chairwoman Jessica Rosenworcel, Federal Communications Commission

Gov. Roy Cooper

Tiffany White, ACP Beneficiary, who introduced Vice President Harris

Vice President Kamala Harris



Jenny Black, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood South Atlantic

Calla Hales, Co-owner and Executive Director of A Preferred Women's Health Center

Sen. Natalie Murdock, NC State Senator

Vice President Kamala Harris


