Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello.
It looks like I'll be your only pooler for today. I've been swept and loaded in an SUV in downtown SF. We are awaiting to depart via motorcade.
On background from a WH Official:
The Vice President is departing San Francisco, California for a finance reception in Los Gatos, California. Expecting the drive to be a little over an hour.
Began rolling at 1:56pm PST En route Los Gatos
We arrived at a private home in Los Gatos at 3:10 pm PST. The ride was uneventful. Your pooler saw hundreds of people using their phones to film the motorcade as it glided through downtown San Francisco. Your pooler saw about ten people in the neighborhood near the private home recording the motorcade. One woman held a small sign that read "Hi Kamala"
Per an earlier WH guidance: Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks at a DNC Finance Reception in Los Gatos, California.
It looks like I'll be the only press in the room for this event. I am holding in the motorcade.
I'll send more soon.
On Background From a White House Official
Hosts of the DNC Finance Reception in Los Gatos, California:
This is an outdoor event that's being attended by at least 100 people. Attendees are seated in black chairs on a deck on the main level. Your pooler is standing on the side of the deck behind attendees. DNC Chairman Jamie Harrison. He just finished speaking. Here's some pull out quotes from his 12 minute speech. Link to full remarks are below.
Harrison highlighted the swearing in of Ketanji Brown Jackson, saying that during her hearing, Republicans called her "everything but a child of god."
Harrison highlighted the bipartisan infrastructure bill, nothing the bill will give firefighters "up to a $20,000 raise."
He noted the overturning of Roe v. Wade and the rollback or reproductive rights nationwide.
"This election is about all of us. So every single one of us need to be working together."
Harrison said they've raised $228 million in the midterms thus far, a record amount and noted that they're investing in voting. He said they've already spent $80 million on the ground "building the biggest voter protection program in the history of the DNC."
He said they're running digital ads "to make sure voters know just about how extreme the republicans are on abortion."
Harrison said the republicans super power is "fear" and for the DNC, it's "hope."
Harris walked out at 3:43pm. Attendees stood and gave a boisterous applause as she walked out. She's about to speak. 
Your pooler was moved to a reserved press seat on the side near the front of the crowd. Your pooler could not see Harris as she made her remarks. Shannon Hunt-Scott introduced Harris for about five minutes. Hunt-Scott is hosting the event and owns the residence where Harris is speaking.
An official told your pooler 100 people are attending this event. The full link to her remarks are below. She begins speaking after Hunt-White around the 5:40 mark. As Harris stepped to the mic, the crowd have her a second standing ovation. She spoke for about 30 mins. She ended remarks at 4:14pm PST.
Your pooler was moved to the motorcade while Harris was still in the room. She's doing a Q&A. An official said she will take 2 questions. This portion was not covered by press.
Your pooler saw DNC Chairman Jamie Harrison join the motorcade, which began rolling at 4:33pm en route to a second event in San Francisco.
Here are some highlights from her remarks:
She spoke about how people can feel tired advocating for change.
"Because we are so committed, it feels as if it's never going to end."
Harris said she hosted a Pride event at the VP Residence in DC. The crowd applauded after she mentioned this event.
Harris mentioned her work on maternal mortality and said that she's been able to put the issue on the "stage of the White House." She mentioned disproportionate rates women or color die in child birth.
Harris said she was on AF2 when SCOTUS overturned Roe. "It knocked the wind out of us." Harris said many women around the country feel "alone and isolated" following the decision.
Harris said the president "rightly" called for changing the senate filibuster rules to codify abortion rights protection.
Harris highlighted California leaders taking steps to further protect reproductive rights.
"Federal elections matter….if we're going to pass voting rights, that matters."
She mentioned the SCOTUS decision on the EPA announced to day.
"State elections matter…local elections matter."
She mentioned jurisdictions moving to criminalize women and doctors and who perform abortions.
"We stand for equality. We stand for unity."
The crowd applauded after she noted the administrations child tax credit.
She highlighted the swearing in of Justice KBJ, the crowd applauded.
Harris noted that she met with the Ukrainian President days before Putin invaded, French President Emmanuel Maceon and former German chancellor Angela Merkel.
Harris said if Biden was not president, the US would not be able to rally NATO and the EU amid the invasion of Ukraine.
"Elections matter."
Harris said "we need paid family leave" and said they need to pass voting rights legislation.
"We have work to do."
Harris noted that she authored the George Floyd act. She noted the midterm election is coming.
"Don't trivialize the significance of [the election]"
Harris noted that she frequently has to break tie votes in the Senate and said Democrats needed to gain seats in the midterm elections.
Harris said that to win, democrats need to make clear "what we stand for" and "what is fight for."
Harris said there's no bipartisanship in Congress except for infrastructure.
Harris said she asked her team to make a vinn diagram of which states were anti abortion rights, anti voting rights and anti LGBT rights.
"I know every year every election we say this is the biggest one. But man, I mean, this Court just took a constitutional right from the women."
Hello,
We are back in cold San Francisco.
The motorcade arrived to the second event at 5:54pm PST. Your pooler did not see VPOTUS exit her suv.
The ride was uneventful. Your pooler saw a few people in Los Gatos use phones and an iPad to record the motorcade as it drove by. As the motorcade drove down through SF, your pooler saw a few people waving and recording the event on their phones.
On background from a WH Official:
Vice President Harris attends a DNC Finance Reception hosted by Carol Bonnie and Reid Hoffman at the Bonnie residence. The event is in San Francisco, California.
- Carol Bonnie, Host
- Reid Hoffman, Chairman & Co Founder, LinkedIn; Partner Greylock Partners
This fundraiser is quite intimate. A White House official said 24 people are in attendance, including California Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis.
(Your pooler did not lay eye on the LT GOV)
Your pooler caught the tail end of remarks DMC Chairman Harrison made. Harris stood towards the back of the living room as he made them.
Carol Bonnie introduced Harris. She said she's known VPOTUS for decades and she said she hasn't changed.
"When you see injustice, you stand up and fight. You get mad. I love it."
"One thing you've always done is been there for all of us."
Bonnie said she's less scared of the future "because I know it's you in this position in this administration."
Harris began speaking at 6:21pm PST.
Harris said in early 2020, Bonnie was living in VA during Covid and they grew tomatoes in their home garden. When carol went to visit relatives attending Georgetown, carol brought tomatoes to Harris DC apartment. She planned to cook with them. The next day, Biden asks her to join the ticket and she moves the tomatoes to Delaware, where she lived for much of the 2020 election.
"I'm so sorry I wasn't able to do anything with them."
She said when the Dobbs was announced, she was on AF2 with Sen. Dick Durbin traveling to Illinois for an event on maternity.
"We have elevated the issue of maternal health to the front stage or the White House."
Her team knocked on her door and she said she "instinctively" looked to CNN.
Harris said "elections matter."
Harris touted the administration's accomplishments thus far, including the child tax credit, the bipartisan infrastructure bill, additional HBCU and MSI funding, rally NATO and the EU amid the war in Ukraine and the gun bill.
Harris said the admiration needed to take action to ensure women are free to travel to access abortion and abortion medication.
"Our greatest movements that have produced progress in this country have been fueled by coalitions of people" with little in common, she said.
"We were built for this."
"When you know what you stand for then you know what you fight for."
"Do not despair we have a lot of work to do."
VPOTUS stopped speaking at 6:38pm PST. Your pooler was swiftly shuffled out the room and taken to the motorcade. VPOTUS remained in the room.
She left the residence and the motorcade began rolling at 7:02pm.
The motorcade arrived to San Francisco International airport at 7:36 without incident. Your pooler saw people waving and recording the motorcade as it winded through the city.
VPOTUS exited her vehicle at 7:38 and took a picture with local staff. She ascended to AF2 at 7:39, waved and entered the plane.
We will be wheels up soon.
At 7:53 PST.
See y'all later!
Hello from Los Angeles, where it's much much warmer.
AF2 had wheels at 8:48 pm PST.
VPOTUS descended from AF2 at 8:57pm.
VPOTUS went straight to the motorcade, entering her vehicle at 8:58pm
Motorcade began rolling to her LA residence at 8:59pm.
The motorcade rise was uneventful. We dropped off VPOTUS at her home in Brentwood at 9:24 pm. Your pooler did not see VPOTUS exit her vehicle. Looks like we are done for the evening. Have a wonderful night!
VPOTUS doesn't have any planned public events for Friday, per a White House guidance.