Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced that 61 of the largest U.S. hospital and health sector companies responded to the Administration's 
, committing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 50% by 2030. The new commitments represent over 650 hospitals and thousands of other providers across the country, and include plans to strengthen resilience to climate change, protect public health, and lower costs. The health care sector accounts for 8.5% of U.S. emissions, so these bold commitments advance President Biden's goal to reduce nationwide greenhouse gas emissions 50-52% in 2030 and reach net-zero emissions in 2050.
Today, historic commitments are being made across the health care industry, including:
The full list of the 61 organizations is outlined below.
President Biden sees action on climate change as a public health priority. Studies show that the increasingly dangerous consequences of climate change are affecting public health, through more frequent and intense severe weather, extreme heat, and threats to food and water security. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to using every available tool to protect public health, while moving full-speed ahead with our mission to tackle the climate crisis, to create jobs, grow the clean energy economy, and lower costs for families.
The Biden-Harris Administration launched the 
 on Earth Day 2022 through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Since then, over 650 private and public hospitals and health centers, along with pharmaceutical companies, medical device-makers, suppliers, and group purchasing organizations have signed the pledge, joining more than 200 federal hospitals and health facilities from HHS, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Military Health System. These organizations are also developing climate resilience plans for facilities and communities, including plans to support individuals and communities most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Today, the White House and HHS are re-opening the Health Care Sector Pledge until October 28th, 2022 to build on these historic commitments ahead of the United Nations Climate Conference in November.
61 organizations have signed the pledge, representing a large share of the US health sector, including:
Last year, the Administration established the 
 at HHS to identify and address health disparities exacerbated by climate impacts. Since then, the Administration has invested over 
 to help low-income Americans manage energy costs in the face of extreme weather.
The VA has made substantial progress implementing its 2021 Climate Action Plan, including incorporating climate resilience requirements into construction standards, assessing the adequacy of critical supply stockpiles to align with projected climate change impacts, and developing agency wide strategies to address mission risk amplified by climate change. Within its medical centers, VA has also successfully initiated efforts to transition to zero-emission vehicles, is accelerating efforts to increase energy and water efficiency, and is expanding upon existing and new sources of carbon-pollution free electricity.
Today, the Administration is announcing a series of new resources to support the health sector in transitioning to clean energy, reducing emissions, and building climate resilience:
Private health care systems are taking up the mantle on climate action – going beyond the HHS Health Care Sector Climate Pledge to achieve even greater progress on climate resilience: