Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi all,
I'll be your print pooler for today's trip to Cleveland. Pool has been tested and swept and we're waiting at JBA for President Biden.
Below is the president's schedule for the trip. Karine Jean-Pierre is expected to gaggle aboard Air Force One and the gaggle will be streamed on the White House website. Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
, 
Marine One touched down at 12:35pm as it just started to rain here at JBA. POTUS disembarked three minutes later, removing a blue face mask. He boarded Air Force One at 12:40pm.
We'll be wheels up for Cleveland momentarily.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Air Force One en route Cleveland, Ohio:
Marty Walsh, Secretary of Labor
Rep. Richard Neal (
)
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Gene Sperling, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator & Senior Advisor to the President
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Christian Tom, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Digital Strategy
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Lee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Kimi Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy NSC Legal Advisor & Associate Counsel
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
We're taxiing for the quick flight to Cleveland. A reminder that the gaggle will stream on the White House website.
We were wheels up at JBA at 12:49pm and wheels down in Cleveland as of 1:43pm. Karine Jean-Pierre fielded questions for about 17 minutes during the flight.
POTUS deplaned at 2:00pm. He spoke with Reps. Kaptur and Brown, Sen. Brown and Mayor Bibb before getting into the Beast.
It's overcast here in Cleveland and pleasantly cooler than D.C.
We're rolling to Max S. Hayes high school for today's event.
Passing along from the White House:
Would like to send an addition on one of the AF1 passengers listed previously— Rep. Richard Neal of Massachusetts is also the Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
Upon arrival to Cleveland Hopkins International Airport, the President will be greeted by:
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Rep. Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Justin Bibb, Mayor of Cleveland
The motorcade arrived at the high school at 2:21pm after an uneventful ride; pool did not see POTUS enter.
Pool spotted a van near the venue with the message "worst president never elected" with a Chinese flag affixed to the side. A group of people outside the school held a sign that called for nationwide legal abortion.
Pool is now inside the venue - the high school gym. There is a large crowd inside already. A band is playing. There are American flags and a giant sign that reads "Jobs. Unions. Retirement Security."
Passing along from the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Representative Richard Neal (MA-01)
Justin Bibb, Mayor of Cleveland
Armond Budish, Cuyahoga County Executive
Kenny Yuko, Senate Minority Leader, Ohio State Senate (OH-25)
Allison Russo, Minority Leader, Ohio House of Representatives (OH-24)
State Senator Nickie Antonio (OH-23)
State Representative Michael Skindell (OH-13)
Passing along the speaking program from the White House. The president's remarks will be streaming on the White House website.
Speaking program:
Justin Bibb, Mayor of Cleveland
Representative Richard Neal (MA-01)
Representative Marcy Kaptur (OH-09)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Marty Walsh, Secretary of Labor
Bill DeVito, Iron Workers Local 17
The President
The White House says we have a two-minute warning until Biden's remarks.
Remarks are streaming live here: 
Biden took the stage at 3:19pm to loud cheers from the crowd. When Bill DeVito introduced him, chants of "Joe! Joe! Joe!" broke out.
He began his remarks by addressing the fatal police shooting of Jayland Walker in Akron.
Again, remarks are streaming here: 
POTUS finished his remarks at 3:48pm.
A little color from the speech - When a cellphone rang in the audience, Biden quipped that it was probably Trump calling him.
Biden's mention of Lindsey Graham got loud boos from the crowd.
Biden spent roughly 45 minutes mingling with attendees following the event. He took selfies and shook hands with people in the crowd.
Pool is now loading back into the bus to head back to the airport.
The motorcade is rolling back to the airport as of 5:11pm. Pool did not see POTUS exit the venue.
The motorcade arrived back at the airport at 5:23pm. Pool caught a glimpse of the president boarding Air Force One wearing a blue face mask.
On the ride, a few people lined the road and held up phones to take photos as the motorcade passed.
We'll be wheels up for JBA soon.
We were wheels up in Cleveland at 5:41pm and wheels down at JBA 6:30 after an uneventful flight.
POTUS deplaned at 6:43pm and promptly got into the Beast.
Handing off to in-town pool.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon, I'm your in-town pooler for today.
Your pooler has been COVID tested and we're gathering now ahead of departure, which is still scheduled for 12:25pm from the South Lawn.
POTUS, giving the pool a bit of a fake-out, exited via the East Wing garden (and not the traditional exit) at 12:21pm. He waved but was too far from the pool to hear a few shouted questions, and didn't come over to chat.
M1 lifted off from the South Lawn at 12:26pm. Handing off to out of town pool.
From the WH:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Gene Sperling, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator & Senior Advisor to the President
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Gaggle will start momentarily, per the WH.
There's been a bad weather call, per WH. Pool is loading into vans imminently.
Pool arrived at JBA right around 6pm, and are now awaiting POTUS arrival — ETA per WH is 6:35pm.
AF1 touched down at 6:30pm and POTUS disembarked at 6:43pm, as noted by the out-of-town pooler.
In-town pool did not see POTUS enter the vehicle but we are motorcading back to WH as of 6:46pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 7:05pm and wrapped around the South Lawn. Pool did not see POTUS enter the WH.
We have a travel/photo lid. Have a great rest of your day and week.