Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello,
Your pooler has been tested, swept and is awaiting VPOTUS arrival at LAX. Your pooler will not be in Harris' motorcade ride to the airport and instead rode with WH staff to the tarmac.
AF2 is scheduled to depart at 9:45 pacific time for Chicago O'Hare, where your pooler will be joined with more members or the press. Harris is scheduled to give remarks at the National Education Associaton at 4:15 cdt.
For the many of you asking if Harris will visit Highland Park, I've been told there have been no changes to Harris' public schedule as of now.
Here's the WH guidance for today:
At 
, the Vice President will depart Los Angeles, California en route Chicago, Illinois. This departure from Los Angeles International Airport and arrival at Chicago O'Hare International Airport will be pooled press.
At 
, the Vice President will give remarks at the National Education Association 2022 Annual Meeting and Representative Assembly. This event at the McCormick Place Convention Center in Chicago, Illinois will be pooled press and live-streamed on 
.
At 
, the Vice President will depart Chicago, Illinois en route Washington, D.C. This departure from Chicago O'Hare International Airport and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.
VPOTUS' motorcade arrived at LAX at 9:32pm PST. She is joined with her husband SGOTUS Doug Emhoff, both of whom exited their vehicle at 9:33 and ascended to AF2. They waved before entering AF2 at 9:34pm PST.
We will be wheels up momentarily
At 9:49 am PST
See y'all soon!
At 3:07pm CDT.
Also apologies, just seeing I put VPOTUS' arrival at LAX. It should have been am, not PM. I need more coffee.
VPOTUS and SGOTUS emerged from AF2 at 3:34
Pm cdt.
Your pooler was on the tarmac and in a van for about 20 mins waiting for Harris to emerge.
She was greeted by Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot and County Executive Toni Preckwinkle. They shook hands and spoke with SGOTUS and VPOTUS until 3:37.
Harris and Emhoff entered their vehicle at 3:37. Motorcade began rolling at 3:38 en route to McCormick Place Convention Center
From the WH:
On background from a WH Official:
While traveling from Los Angeles, California to Chicago, Illinois, Vice President Harris connected with Governor J.B. Pritzker of Illinois and Highland Park Mayor Nancy Rotering to discuss the mass shooting in Highland Park, Illinois.
Harris was greeted by:
- Mayor Lori Lightfoot (D-Chicago, IL)
- County Executive Toni Preckwinkle(D-Cook County, IL)
The motorcade arrived to the McCormick Place Convention Center at 4:15 pm cdt.
Your pooler did not see Harris or Emhoff emerge from their vehicle. Your pooler has been joined by other journalists, fyi. Press is heading into the convention center. We peeled off from VPOTUS and SGOTUS. I've been told more will join us there.
While in the motorcade, your pooler spotted a few people cheering and recording the procession on their phones.
The NEA remarks will NOT be featured on the White House website. Instead, you can see them on her Facebook and Twitter accounts.
I'll check back in when her remarks begin.
This afternoon Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks at the National Education Association's 2022 Annual Meeting and Representative Assembly in Chicago, Illinois. Vice President Harris will discuss the challenges educators have faced in recent years and highlight their critical role in communities across the country, as well as the Biden-Harris' Administration investments to support students and educators.
Today, the Administration is building on the historic investments to support students and educators by launching a new, national effort to recruit 250,000 mentors and tutors to help address pandemic learning loss amongst students, which the Vice President will also highlight.
At the beginning of her remarks, Vice President Harris will address the recent tragedy in Highland Park, which resulted in loss of life and left dozens people injured. President Biden recently signed into law the first major bipartisan gun reform legislation in almost 30 years, and both the President and Vice President acknowledged that more must be done.
The Vice President remarks will be livestreamed 
.


NEA President Rebecca S. Pringle said around 4:35pm that Harris' remarks will be delayed. It is unclear when they will begin. The conference is moving on "until we get a signal that Vice President Harris is ready for us," Pringle said.
Attendees who were standing in the front, awaiting her remarks, walked back to their seats.
I'll tell you more when I get information.
Per a WH official, The Vice President will also address the shooting in Highland Park at the top of her remarks.
The remarks are still delayed, she is not yet on stage.
Reminder, you can stream them on her Twitter and FB, according to an official.
Also From a WH official:
There are approximately 6,000 attendees both in person and virtual.
Vice President Harris will be introduced by Becky Pringle, President of the National Education Association (NEA)
You can stream them on her Twitter and Facebook.
She's being introduced by the NEA president right now. Tune in at the link below.
Just checked WH website and I see a link. Apologies.
at 5:39pm CDT.
The crowd was very jovial and cheered as she called on Congress to ban assault rifles. They stood when she entered and exited.
Motorcade began rolling at 6:09 pm cdt to an OTR
Your pooler did not see VPOTUS or SGOTYS enter the motorcade.
Here is my otter from the NEA speech:
From a WH:
Reportable at 6:30pm CT: The Vice President will visit Highland Park, Illinois. She will be accompanied by Mayor Nancy Rotering, Congressman Brad Schneider, and State Senator Julie Morrison.
During their call this morning, Mayor Rotering invited the Vice President to join her in Highland Park following her speech to the NEA National Assembly.
VPOTUS and SGOTUS' motorcade arrived in Highland Park, Illinois at 7:01 pm local time.
We appear to be in the downtown area, which appears to be the site of shooting. VPOTUS is holding in her car at the moment, per a WH official.
Your pooler has not been given additional guidance from the WH on what to expect during the visit.
The ride was uneventful, though, we did hold briefly I-90/94 at "the loop area" near downtown Chicago for about 30 seconds. When the motorcade arrived, a few people stood on aids
I'll send more when I can.
VP and SGOTUS emerged from the motorcade at 7:05pm and were greeted by local officials, speaking with them for about two mins. They the walked along Green Bay road for a few seconds until they for too the intersection of Green Bay and Central Ave, perpendicular to the crime scene. She spoke for a few more minutes with local officials and police officers. Press was shuffled back and forth across the street to capture exchanges.
The crime scene appears largely intact. Childrens bikes, a baby stroller, water coolers, toys and lawn chairs are scattered along the brick sidewalks.
Your pooler could not hear the exchanges with Harris and local officials.
Local residents stood on the opposite side of the street. There are about 100 of them standing behind press.
This will be covered by local and national press so
Please tune in for the remarks, which began at 7:17. I am so far away from her she is very hard to make out what she's saying.
VPOTUS remarks ended at 7:21pm. Your pooler was separated from the VP, who stayed behind to speak more with officials.
After her remarks concluded, local residents applauded and shouted "thank you for coming."
Pool is back on the bus and waiting to depart to the airport via motorcade.
Began rolling at 7:29 pm CDT
Also, I just noticed I dropped a V in a subject line. POTUS is 
in Highland Park. Just VPOTUS and SGOTUS.
At 7:57pm CDT
The ride was swift and uneventful.
Due to inclement weather the Vice President's departure from Chicago, Illinois will be closed press.
Will be wheels up very soon