Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning –
I'll be filling in as your print pooler today and we don't have someone in the WHCA seat, so thanks in advance for your patience. The President will begin the day here in the Bavarian Alps to conclude the G7 before traveling to Spain ahead of a NATO summit. Pool has been swept and is holding near the Schloss Elmau on what so far has been a very cloudy morning.
The President's first event, scheduled for about 10 am local, will be a meeting on the sidelines of the summit with the leaders of Germany, France and the UK. And do note that we are anticipating a briefing from White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan later today on AF1 during our flight to Madrid.
The day's complete schedule is below:
5:55 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT meets with Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany, President Emmanuel Macron of France, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom on the margins of the G7
Summit Pavilion, Schloss Elmau, Germany
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT attends and delivers remarks during the final session of the G7 Summit, focused on Multilateral and Digital Order
Yoga Pavilion, Schloss Elmau, Germany
Restricted Out-of-Town Pool Spray
12:05 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Schloss Elmau, Germany en route Munich, Germany
Schloss Elmau Landing Zone, Germany
Out-of-Town Pool
12:50 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Munich, Germany en route Madrid, Spain
Munich International Airport, Munich, Germany
Open Press
3:10 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Madrid, Spain
Madrid–Torrejón Airport, Madrid, Spain
Pre-Credentialed Media
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT holds a bilateral meeting with President Pedro Sánchez of Spain to continue coordinating on supporting Ukraine and holding Russia accountable
Palace of Moncloa, Madrid, Spain
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with His Majesty King Felipe VI of Spain
Royal Palace of Madrid, Madrid, Spain
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
8:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY attend a dinner for Heads of State and Government and Heads of International Organizations invited to the official NATO Summit program, hosted by the His Majesty King Felipe VI and Her Majesty Queen Letizia of Spain
Royal Palace, Madrid, Spain
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
Briefing Schedule
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Madrid, Spain
The White House advises that, due to weather, the president will no longer be attending the 10:30 am working group.
The 10:00 am event will happen as scheduled and we will be loading the motorcade immediately afterward.
The pool is now gathering for the day's first event, which was originally billed as the president's meeting with Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany, President Emmanuel Macron of France, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom. But note that Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has been added to the program. Folks, the Quad has become a Quint.
It will be held at the Summit Pavilion of the Schloss Elmau.
The president entered the pavilion at 10:11. He took his seat between Johnson and Scholz. Biden had his jacket on today and he continued the summit theme by remaining tieless despite the day's cooler temperatures.
He smiled at the pool and made a little small talk with world leaders. Boris Johnson joked about the "intimate gathering" of dozens of reporters and photographers. Biden did not respond to a reporter's shouted question about getting grain out of Ukraine, turning to his peers and saying he didn't hear the question. The question was then repeated and POTUS still did not answer but Johnson said "we're working on it."
Pool was escorted from the pavilion moments later.
Another change to the schedule as a restricted pool was just hustled back from the motorcade to the pavilion. The other G7 leaders had joined and Biden stayed in the meeting long enough for a group photo, per the WH.
We stepped back inside at 10:48. The leaders smiled, posed for photos. Your pooler shouted a question to POTUS about whether the allies had done enough to fulfill Ukrainian President Zelenskyy's wish list he feels he needs to win the war. The president did not answer but seemed amused by the spectacle. We then scrambled back to the motorcade
The motorcade pulled away from Schloss Elmau at 10:58, thus ending the president's participation at the G7. Pool did not have eyes on POTUS.
The White House advises that we will first be in the motorcade for a stretch and then lifting to Munich, where AF1 awaits. The goal remains an on-time departure from Germany.
After an uneventful but scenic ride through the mountains, the motorcade came to a stop at 11:50 and the president boarded M1 for the flight to Munich. Pool then stepped onto our own helicopter and we were airborne at precisely 12:00. We did not have eyes on M1 as it took off.
M1 touched down at 12:28. The president waved at the pool but did not come over to speak. He boarded AF1 at 12:36 and we will be wheels up shortly.
Reminder that White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan are expected to brief during the flight. It will be live-streamed on the WH website and a two-minute warning should be distributed. Also spotted boarding the plane: Secretary of State Blinken.
Next stop: Madrid, Spain
Air Force One touched down at Madrid-Torrejón Airport at 3:04 after a somewhat bumpy flight from Munich. On the flight, Karine Jean-Pierre and Jake Sullivan, as promised, gaggled with the pool at 2:10 for approximately 36 minutes; it should have been live-streamed on the WH website. Jean-Pierre stayed behind to chat off the record a few additional minutes. No other visitors.
Some news from the briefing:
POTUS will meet with Turkish President Erdogan tomorrow, but exact format/time of the meeting is still being determined. Sullivan said the focus would be on the strategic US-Turkey relationship as well the bids for NATO membership by Finland and Sweden. Sullivan also provided updates on deliverables from the NATO summit and said that Biden will also host a tri-lateral meeting with the leaders of Japan and Korea tomorrow
Sullivan also called for the release of Brittney Greiner, currently being held in Russia. And Jean-Pierre expressed sympathy for the migrant truck tragedy in San Antonio and, later, ruled out building facilities to provide abortions on federal property
And from WH:
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol, U.S. Department of State
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Amos Hochstein, Senior Advisor for Energy Security, U.S. Department of State
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications
Charlie Fromstein, NSC Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Tom Sullivan, Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, State Department
The president stepped off AF1 at 3:17 for a welcome led by the King of Spain. A full list of greeters is below. Biden and the King chatted amiably for a few minutes and then the president worked a brief receiving line.
The motorcade began rolling at 3:23 for a bilateral meeting with President Pedro Sanchez of Spain, to be held at the Palace of Moncloa. It's warmer here than Bavaria.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Madrid–Torrejón Airport:
King Felipe VI of Spain
José Manuel Albares Bueno, Minister for Foreign Affairs, European Union, and Cooperation
Santiago Cabanas, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Spain to the United States
Ambassador Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon, Ambassador of the United States to the Kingdom of Spain
The motorcade pulled up at 4:05 to the grounds of the Palace of Moncloa, the residence and workplace of Spain's prime minister, Pedro Sanchez. The ride through Madrid was uneventful, with lots of onlookers (and drivers stuck in traffic) staring at the motorcade.
At 4:13, the presidential limousine then made its way to an entrance of the palace. The prime minister stepped out to greet POTUS, and they shook hands, chatted quietly and posed for photos before walking inside
The pool was brought into the palace where Biden and Sánchez held a bilat (full group of attendees below). Upon conclusion, the two stepped up to a pair of podiums in a reception room at 5:22.
Prime Minister Sánchez spoke first, touting the close ties between the two nations and releasing an updated joint declaration between Washington and Madrid. The WH has released a copy.
POTUS began speaking at 5:29. He categorized the bilateral meeting as "warm" and deemed Spain an "indispensable ally" and then recounted the actions that the US and NATO have taken to confront Russia. Biden also said that the US would increase the numbers of destroyers stationed at a naval base here in Spain.
Biden wrapped at 5:35, after saying that he would outline more US plan at the summit tomorrow. He did not take questions, ignoring a shouted questions about the tragedy in San Antonio.
The president then exited the room and we loaded the motorcade. We are rolling at 5:44, off now to the king's palace
From the WH:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with H.E. Pedro Sánchez, President of the Government of Spain:
T.H. Julissa Reynoso, Ambassador of the United States to Spain
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs
T.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Ms. Joanna Pritchett, Director for European Union Affairs, National Security Council
T.H. José Manuel Albares, Minister of Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation T.H. Doña Margarita Robles, Minister of Defense
T.H. Santiago Cabanas, Ambassador of Spain to the United States
Mr. Manuel de la Rocha, Secretary General for Economic and G20 Affairs
Ms. Emma Aparici, National Security Advisor
Ms. Pilar Sánchez Bella, Presidential Advisor
The presidential motorcade traveled from one Madrid palace to another, winding its way through pretty streets before arriving at a courtyard of the opulent royal palace at 5:55 pm.
POTUS was to be met at the Palacio Real de Madrid by His Majesty King Felipe VI but pool did not see arrival; Biden exited the limo before we got there.
Pool was then set up in a very very grand room within the palace. The king and POTUS entered at 6:01 pm and shook hands with each nation's delegation. The king then offered warm remarks about the ties between the two nations and he fondly mentioned his longtime relationship with Biden
POTUS then spoke at 6:05 and immediately evoked a saying from a small town in Delaware about overstaying welcomes and joked that he may not go back to the US because his time in Madrid has been so pleasant. Biden raved about the (admittedly impressive) palace and then touched again on his goals for the NATO summit
The two leaders left the room at 6:09 and were to head to a bilat. Pool is holding.
The motorcade departed the Royal Palace at 6:40 pm. We drove through Madrid's beautiful boulevards and arrived at the POTUS hotel RON at 6:50. The president is now meeting with embassy staff and families.
We are expected to return to the royal palace for dinner later tonight.
And from WH:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Majesty King Felipe VI of Spain:
T.H. Julissa Reynoso, Ambassador of the United States to Spain
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs
T.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security Council
Ms. Joanna Pritchett, Director for European Union Affairs, National Security Council
H.E. Jose Manuel Albares Bueno, Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union, and Cooperation
Mr. Jaime Alfonsin, Chief of the Royal Household
Ms. Angeles Moreno Bau, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs
H.E. Santiago Cabanas, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Spain to the United States
Mr. Alfonso Sanz Portoles, Diplomatic Advisor to the Royal House
The motorcade began rolling at 7:57 pm back to the Royal Palade for, per WH, a dinner for Heads of State and Government and Heads of International Organizations invited to the official NATO Summit program, hosted by His Majesty King Felipe VI and Her Majesty Queen Letizia of Spain.
We arrived at 8:06 pm.
At 8:46 pm, POTUS and other NATO leaders entered a grand ballroom for a family photo. Biden was in the front row, just to the King of Spain's right.
The photo was taken just minutes after the NATO Secretary General announced that Turkey was dropping its opposition to Finland and Sweden joining the alliance - but the leaders, far from the assembled press, made no public comments, only joking and laughing among themselves.
The leaders returned to the dinner three minutes later.
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady are attending a dinner for NATO Allies hosted by King Felipe VI and Queen Letizia of Spain. Also in attendance:
Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg of NATO and Ingrid Schulerud
Prime Minister Edi Rama of Albania and Lindita Rama
Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia and Jodie Haydon
Prime Minister Alexander De Croo of Belgium and Annik Penders
President Rumen Radev of Bulgaria
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada
President Zoran Milanović of Croatia and Sanja Musić Milanović
Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the Czech Republic
Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen of Denmark
Prime Minister Kaja Kallas of Estonia
President Sauli Niinistö of Finland
President Emmanuel Macron of France and Brigitte Macron
Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany
President Irakli Garibashvili of Georgia
Prime Minister Kyriakos Misotakis of Greece and Mareva Virginia Grabowski
Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of Hungary
Prime Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir of Iceland
Prime Minister Mario Draghi of Italy with Maria Serenella Cappello
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan
President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea and Keon Hee Kim
President Egils Levits of Latvia and Andra Levite
President Gitanas Nausėda of Lithuania and Diana Nausėdienė
Prime Minister Xavier Bettel of Luxembourg and Gauthier Destenay
Prime Minister Milo Dukanovic of Montenegro and Lidija Dukanovic
Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands
Prime Minister Jacinda Arden of New Zealand and Clark Gayford
Prime Minister Zoran Zaev of North Macedonia and Elizabeta Gjorgievska
Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Store of Norway
President Andrzej Duda of Poland and Agata Kornhauser-Duda
Prime Minister António Costa of Portugal
President Klaus Werner Iohannis of Romania
President Zuzana Čaputová of Slovakia and Juraj Rizman
President Robert Golop of Slovenia
President Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón of Spain
Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, Sweden
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey and Emine Erdoğan
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom
President Charles Michel of the European Council and Amelie Derbaudrenghien
President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission and Heiko von der Leyen
Leaving the NATO dinner, the presidential motorcade pulled away from the Royal Palace at 10:15 pm.
After an uneventful ride, we reached the POTUS RON hotel here in Madrid at 10:26. A lid was then called, ending this long day that began in Bavaria.
Thanks, all. We'll do it again tomorrow.