Reproductive health care, including access to birth control and safe and legal abortion care, is an essential part of your health and well-being. While Roe v. Wade was overturned, abortion remains legal in many states, and other reproductive health care services remain protected by law. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is committed to providing you with accurate and up-to-date information about access to and coverage of reproductive health care and resources. Our goal is to make sure you have appropriate information and support.
Below you will find information on your right to access care and have it covered by your insurance or other health care coverage if you have it, where to go if you don't have coverage, and how to get information if you don't know.
Most health coverage – whether you have public (e.g., Medicaid) or private health coverage (e.g., coverage through the Affordable Care Act Marketplace or through your employer) – covers family planning counseling, birth control and other preventive services at no cost to you.
Under the Affordable Care Act, most health plans are required to provide you with birth control and family planning counseling with no out-of-pocket costs. This includes:
To learn more about birth control coverage requirements for different types of health plans, visit 
.
Following the Supreme Court decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, access to abortion will depend on the state you live in even more than before.
Under law, you have the right to access other preventive health services with no out of pocket costs under most health insurance plans. Most health insurance plans are required to cover women's preventive health services, including:
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Civil Rights (OCR) enforces federal civil rights laws that prohibit discriminatory restrictions on access to health care. If you believe that your or another person's civil rights or health information privacy rights have been violated, you can 
.
The 
 (EMTALA) requires that, for any individual showing up to the hospital with an emergency medical condition, the hospital is required to provide you with the emergency care necessary to save your life, including abortion care.
 to protect your private medical information under federal law. If you think your privacy has been violated, please visit: 
 to file a complaint.
Visit 
 to learn more about your rights and available federal resources.
Get the facts on: