Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'm your print pooler on this cloudy day. Reach out with any questions. First gather for POTUS event with wounded warriors, their caregivers and families is at 8 a.m. at the Palm Room doors. Final gather for the event is 8:30 a.m.
Here is today's schedule:
Final gather at 8:30 am for POTUS event with wounded warriors and families at Palm Room doors.
The final gather for this morning's event is at 8:45 am.
We're gathered on the South Lawn now. It's drizzling and many attendees have umbrellas pulled up.
Some of the people who are participating in the annual Soldier Ride have gathered with their bikes.
A reminder that POTUS remarks will be streamed at the White House site: 
President Biden entered the event at 8:53 with First Lady Jill Biden, VP Harris, and Second Gentlemen Doug Emhoff.
First Lady Jill Biden kicked off remarks.
From the White House:
Joining the President and the First Lady for the Wounded Warrior Project Soldier Ride on the South Lawn:
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Soldier Riders
Guests from the Wounded Warrior Project, officials from the Department of Defense, representatives from Veteran Service Organizations, caregivers, and White House staff
Speaking program:
The First Lady
Retired Corporal Danielle Green
The President
POTUS began speaking at 9:01 am.
POTUS remarks streaming here: 
Biden's remarks ended at 9:06 am.
The president blew an air horn at 9:07, signaling to those participating in the annual Soldier Ride proceeded to do laps around the South Lawn.
The riders for the annual Soldier Ride completed two laps around the South Lawn.
Biden praised the wounded warriors and veterans after completing laps, saying they are the spine and back none of the country.
Biden greeted attendees who were seated and those who participated in the ride.
POTUS exited at the South Portico door at 9:32.
There is a lunch lid until 2:30 p.m.
There's also a couple of updates to the schedule: Biden at 3:15 pm is dropping by a meeting with governors, labor leaders, and private companies launching the Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership in the Roosevelt Room. There will be a pool spray.
NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will be joining Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing, which will begin immediately after Biden's meeting drop by.
Here's the update from the White House:
At 3:15 PM, the President will drop by a meeting with governors, labor leaders, and private companies launching the Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership in the Roosevelt Room. The new partnership focuses on boosting the offshore wind industry to grow American-made clean energy, create good-paying jobs, and lower energy costs for families. This drop by will have an in-house pool spray. The press briefing will begin immediately following the President's drop by.
Here is a link to the fact sheet released by the White House on the partnership: 
The in-town pool is gathering for the pool spray of Biden drop by of Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership meeting in the Roosevelt Room.
Pool walked into the Roosevelt Room at 3:24 p.m.
Biden, seated at the head of the table, said union workers are the "single most qualified workers in the world."
"When I think climate and when I think environment, I think jobs," Biden said.
Biden said he didn't think a meeting like this would have happened four yours ago, saying that so much has changed between business, labor and government.
"We're about to build a better America," Biden said.
From the White House:
Participating in the President's meeting on Offshore Wind:
Senior Administration Officials:
Elected Officials:
Industry Leaders:
Labor Leaders:
Virtual Participants
Elected Officials:
Labor Leaders:
Biden took one question on the Supreme Court gun decision. Will send full quotes shortly.
"I think it's a bad decision, I'm disappointed," he said.
Two minute warning to press briefing.
NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby kicked off the press briefing at 3:46 p.m.
Here is more of Biden's answer during the pool spray:
"I am disappointed. There is one little bit of solace. The majority opinion has laid out that it affects not every state," he said, adding that there is phrase in the decision that is notable where only certain legislation is affected depending on whether they used the term "shell."
"The gun laws in 40 of these states are still in place based on this decision. Not good enough. I think it's a bad decision. I'm disappointed," he said.
Quick correction to the quote from Biden I sent earlier.
"I am disappointed. There is one little bit of solace. The majority opinion has laid out that it affects not every state," he said, adding that there is phrase in the decision that is notable where only certain legislation is affected depending on whether they used the term 
"The gun laws in 40 of these states are still in place based on this decision. Not good enough. I think it's a bad decision. I'm disappointed," he said.
Briefing ended at 4:50.
Lid called at 5:11 p.m.
Have a great evening all!