Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'm your pool reporter today. It's 75 degrees and partly cloudy in Washington.
The White House says there are no updates to President Biden's public schedule yet in light of the Supreme Court's ruling overturning Roe vs. Wade. But the White House said it will update us immediately if there are any changes.
I will keep you posted on any developments.
The press briefing is currently scheduled for 2 p.m. ET.
An update to the schedule:
The White House says President Biden will address the nation following the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe vs. Wade at 12:30 p.m. ET.
The president will speak on the Dobbs vs. Jackson Women's Health Organization decision from the Cross Hall of the White House.
In addition to President Biden's remarks at 12:30 p.m., the White House says there will be no daily press briefing today, which had been scheduled for 2 p.m. ET.
The pool and pre-credentialed media are now gathering for President Biden's remarks on the Supreme Court's decision overturning Roe vs. Wade. He will be speaking from the Cross Hall of the White House.
His remarks will be streamed live here:
We are awaiting President Biden's remarks in the Cross Hall. More than a dozen senior aides, including Susan Rice, Kate Bedingfield, Mike Donilon and Jen O'Malley Dillon, are on hand to listen to his remarks. They are standing near the staircase, a few feet from the official portrait of President Bill Clinton.
We are told his remarks will last about 13 minutes.
2 minute warning.
President Biden began speaking about the Supreme Court ruling on the Dobbs case at 12:37 p.m. ET.
His remarks were carried live.
"It just stuns me," Mr. Biden said at one point, adding that poor women would be hit the hardest by the decision. "This is a sad day for the country in my view but it does not mean the fight is over."
He called on Congress to restore abortion protections into law and pointed to the November midterm elections, saying, "this fall, Roe is on the ballot."
He urged protests to be conducted peacefully and said violence is never acceptable.
"This decision must not be the final word," Mr. Biden said.
Mr. Biden's remarks ended at 12:49 p.m. after speaking for nearly 12 minutes. He did not respond to shouted questions about the ruling and the future of the Supreme Court.
The White House released a list of senior staff who were in attendance for President Biden's remarks. They include:
The White House declared a travel photo lid at 1:42 p.m. ET.
A short update: A senior White House official provides these details on the timing of today's Supreme Court ruling in the Dobbs case: