Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'll be your in-town print pooler today ahead of POTUS' departure to Europe. It's a clear day and 70 degrees here in D.C.
On the schedule prior to POTUS' departure is the signing of the bipartisan gun bill in the Roosevelt Room. Your pooler will let you know if anything changes.
POTUS, wearing a blue suit and tie. entered the Roosevelt Room at 8:35 with FLOTUS, who wore a purple dress. A blue folder and pens were waiting for him on a small desk near the podium.
POTUS initially spoke out on "shocking" decision from SCOTUS in Dobbs and said his administration would work with states on implementation and protecting women.
POTUS said he and FLOTUS would hold an event on July 11 for lawmakers who voted for the gun deal.
Commending families who advocated for gun reform, POTUS said: "Nothing is going to fill that void in their hearts, but they have led the way, so others" won't have to endure the same thing."
POTUS said many people have said,For God's sake. Just do something," adding, "Well, today we have." POTUS added, "While this bill doesn't do everything I called for," it does many of the things.
POTUS signed the bipartisan gun deal at 8:41, then said, "God willing, this help save a lot of lives."
After the signing, reporters shouted a series of questions. POTUS said he had a helicopter waiting and proceeded to exit.
But POTUS took one question from a reporter Wall Street Journal, who asked POTUS aid he thought SCOTUS was broken.
POTUS: "I think the Supreme Court has made some terrible decisions."
POTUS didn't respond to other Qs about expanding the court and term limits as he exited at 8:42.
POTUS exited the Oval Office at 8:51 and headed directly to Marine One on the South Lawn.
POTUS was far from reporters, who shouted questions on SCOTUS. No response from
POTUS.
POTUS boarded Marine One moments later, then stopped to wave through the open door before entering the cabin. Other White House officials followed and entered the helicopter.
Marine One lifted off at 8:55. Handing things off to out of town pooler.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Also, some full quotes from bill signing:
On Dobbs ruling: "Jill and I know how painful the devastating decision is for so many Americans...The decision is administered by states. My administration is going to focus on how they administer it and whether or not they abide by their own laws." POTUS added his administration will protect women and those who cross state line for abortion-related care.
On families advocating for gun reform: "Nothing is going to fill that void in their hearts. But they lead the way so other families will not have the experience with pain and trauma that they have to live through."
"Their message to us was to do something. How many times have you heard that? Just do something? For God's sake, just do something. Well, today, we did."
On gun deal: "Today, we say more than enough. We say more than enough. At a time when it seems impossible to get anything done in Washington, we are doing something consequential. If we can reach a compromise on guns, we ought to be able to reach a compromise on other critical issues on veterans health care, cutting edge American innovation and so much more."
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews.
I will be your pooler today for the president’s travel to Germany, where he will attend the G7 summit.
The guidance is below, in case useful.
Please note that Karine Jean-Pierre and John Kirby will gaggle on board.
As always, get in touch if needed.
Marine One landed at JBA at 9:04 AM
The president exited at 9: 08 AM
He walked over to Air Force One while chatting with the greeter.
He waved at the top of the stairs and boarded at 9:09 AM without answering shouted questions.
We will be wheels up shortly.
Your pooler asked about the time of the gaggle but heard it has not been decided yet. The WH said it will share info per email later
AF1 was wheels down at 10:31 PM local time at Munich International Airport.
The flight was smooth, except for a few bumps in the last hour.
Karine Jean-Pierre did stay after the gaggle for a quick OTR exchange.
We had another visitor to the press cabin, Jen O’Malley Dillon, for a 25 min OTR.
[
]
At 11:44 PM the motorcade is leaving the Schloss landing zone and rolling to RON.
The president will be staying at Schloss Elmau, the venue for the G7 Summit.
Your pooler did not see Marine One land nor the president exit the helicopter.
The motorcade reached Schloss Elmau, the picturesque luxury hotel where the G7 leaders will be meeting, at 12:32 AM.
The WH called a travel/photo lid at 12:37 AM. Pool was still holding in the vans and did not lay eyes on Biden.
It was an uneventful nightly drive, on empty roads, guarded by numerous police and security vehicles with flashing blue lights.
We drove through Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The streets were lined with metallic barricades and police officers.
A pleasure being your pooler today.
Gute Nacht