The U.S. Department of Agriculture is offering nationwide waivers to increase access to infant formula for families in need as states receive and distribute imported infant formula made available by the 
.
USDA is leveraging new authority from the recently passed Access to Baby Formula Act to offer this flexibility.
"USDA is committed to providing our WIC families with nutritious foods, and while we continue working with our many partners to bring the infant formula shortages to a speedy conclusion, we're also going to keep looking for ways to help families here and now," said Stacy Dean, USDA's deputy undersecretary for food, nutrition, and consumer services. "We're maximizing flexibility, encouraging action, and providing ongoing support so we can all overcome this obstacle together."
The action builds on 
 to provide widest access to available infant formula for WIC families. Within days of the 
, USDA offered WIC state agencies waivers to maximize formula options for WIC participants and ensure they could exchange or return any recalled formula. To date, USDA has approved well over 250 state waiver requests.
In addition, Food and Nutrition Service recently 
 to work with their infant formula manufacturers to identify and implement temporary flexibility in their contracts to allow WIC participants to purchase alternate sizes, forms, or brands of infant formula during the ongoing shortage. North Carolina and its formula manufacturer, Nestle Gerber, are the first to have put this into action by agreeing to a contract modification that expands access to formula for WIC participants in the state.
"When formula supply began to tighten, we looked at all avenues to ensure safe and nutritious options for North Carolina babies and families," said North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kody H. Kinsley. "We immediately began working with our federal partners and with our contracted WIC manufacturer, Nestle Gerber, to give families in the WIC program the flexibility to choose different sizes, types and brands of formula during the shortage. We negotiated and implemented these changes as quickly as possible to relieve some of the stress that WIC-participating families felt."
Food and Nutrition Service is encouraged by the action taken by North Carolina. "We are grateful for the leadership and teamwork of North Carolina and Nestle Gerber to increase formula access for WIC families in their state," said Dean. The agency recently shared best practices with WIC state agencies to help them establish contract flexibilities that will help WIC participants access the formula they need.
USDA continues to work closely with 
 and 
 and the 
 to support WIC families through this challenging time and to bring to a swift end to the shortage. Recent USDA actions include: