Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Morning –
Pool is gathering on pebble beach.
Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks from the Executive Office Buliding's Indian Treaty Room today on the 'White House plan to elevate water security as a foreign policy priority.'
VP is expected to begin her remakes around 11:45, but pooler was advised the timeline may be shifting.
Remarks will be live streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
On Wednesday, June 1st, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce the first ever White House Action Plan on Global Water Security, which, for the first time, elevates water security as a foreign policy priority and outlines an innovative, whole-of-government approach to addressing this challenge.
In her remarks, the Vice President will emphasize the implications of water scarcity on communities globally—from their ability to grow food to having access to safe drinking water—and the ripple effect they can have. She will emphasize how our international actions will help to prevent conflict and advance cooperation, increase equity and economic growth, and build more inclusive and resilient communities. Vice President Harris will also highlight what the Biden-Harris Administration has done to ensure water security here at home, including by securing $63 billion in water infrastructure investments through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Plan.
In addition to the Action Plan, the Vice President will release the 1-year report of the Biden-Harris Administration's Drought Resilience Interagency Working Group. This first-of-its-kind group was charged with addressing worsening drought conditions in the U.S. to support farmers, ranchers, Tribes, and communities impacted by ongoing water shortages. Over the last year, the Administration has made considerable progress in heralding an all-of-government approach to addressing drought. With roughly 90 million Americans currently living in drought conditions, the Administration's work on drought resilience is of critical importance.
Wednesday's announcement will build on the Vice President's leadership to underscore the critical importance of access to clean and safe water. As recently as last month, the Vice President spoke about the issue of drought at the ASEAN summit. She also traveled to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Newark, New Jersey this year to highlight the Administration's work to ensure clean and safe water by replacing lead pipes.
At 11:49 AM, four additional speakers entered the room to discuss the importance of water security in foreign nations to promote peace and health.
Additional speakers include:
The Vice President did not immediately join the four women as they discussed the White House's inter-agency effort to promote global water security.

Note: The event was originally schedule to take place in the South Court Auditorium, but your pooler learned it was moved to the Indian Treaty Room due to technical issues that would not be resolved in time for the VP's remarks.
VP Harris began her remarks at 12:03 PM after entering the room following all four of her guest speakers' remarks.
She praised the administration's $63B investment in water infrastructure to address water insecurity, including replacing all lead pipes in the US within the next 10 years and funding "water efficiency, water reuse" and water storage.
VP announced a new a plan on global water security to "prevent conflict and advance cooperation" between nations.
"Water insecurity makes our world less stable" and "less equitable".
"As many of you know, I am a daughter of California... I have been my entire life acutely aware of the reality of our scarcity" of water, Harris said. She noted the droughts in California and said "even when I was in the Senate we would talk about this issue."
VP linked the water insecurity and droughts and wildfires to climate change and the environmental crisis and said it disproportionately affects women and girls.
"Let's get in front of this, let's take it seriously," VP said.
"Many of our most fundamental national security issues" are related to water insecurity.
VP concluded remarks at 12:15 PM.
Please check all quotes against the transcript. Reminder that the event streamed live at WhiteHosue.gov.