Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from Rehoboth.
Pool has seen reports that Rehoboth Ave was shut down this afternoon and has inquired about the whereabouts of the president.
A White House official says: "USSS will have a statement shortly. A small private plane entered restricted airspace, all indications are by mistake, and precautionary measures were taken. There was no threat to the President or his family."
Will send more info as I get it.
A White House official says the president and the first lady were evacuated and are now back at their residence.
Following up to note that pool was not with POTUS at the time of his unannounced movement. We remain at the press hotel and have not gathered.
Will send more as I have it.
Passing on this statement:
From Anthony Guglielmi, USSS:
"Shortly before 1 p.m. today a privately owned aircraft entered the restricted airspace over Rehoboth Delaware after mistakenly entering a secured area. The aircraft was immediately escorted out of the restricted airspace. Preliminary investigation reveals the pilot was not on the proper radio channel, was not following the NOTAMS (Notice to Airmen) that had been filed and was not following published flight guidance. The United States Secret Service will be interviewing the pilot.
ON BACKGROUND from USSS official:
Precautionary security measures were taken but there was no significant threat to the protectee
The president’s motorcade left his residence at 5:28 PM and we are rolling. Pool did not see the president enter his vehicle.
The president arrived at St. Edmond Roman Catholic Church at 5:35 PM. Some people waved at the motorcade as it went by. A crowd was gathered outside the church.
Pool did not see President Biden enter the church. We are now holding outside.
President Biden left the church at 6:22 PM.
Some people waiting outside cheered. "Joe we love you," one man yelled. Another yelled "Let's go Brandon."
At 6:24 PM we are rolling.
The president's motorcade returned to his home at 6:30 PM. Pool peeled off from motorcade a few blocks away and did not see him go in.
At 6:30 PM we have a travel photo lid. Good night all.