Pool Reports by 
, 
Good Morning,
I'm today's pooler on this balmy – and soon to be rainy – day in Washington. Below is today's schedule, copied again for everyone with one update: 
Send me a note if you have any questions!
Now at 2:30 p.m. for the in-town pool, per the WH.
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg will gaggle with press at the Stakeout location soon. His meeting with President Biden is running long, per the WH, and there's no definite time. There will be a two-minute warning.
I'm waiting at the pooler desk and will cover.
NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg started the gaggle at 12:47 pm.
He began by commending the US for its leadership and saying Finland and Sweden's decisions to apply for NATO membership are "historic." Then he discussed the upcoming Madrid summit. He took questions on the endgame in Ukraine, Turkey's opposition to the recent NATO applications, the US' role in mediating that process, and other topics. Some quotes below, but check everything against the transcript linked at the bottom.
"Wars are by nature unpredictable and therefore we just have to be prepared for the long haul."
The war is one of "attrition" on Ukraine's part, he said, and that Russia is taking "high casualties."
 "Turkey is an important ally"
"It's for us to support them."
a global food crunch"Is caused by Russia's war" so the easiest way to end that is to "end the war."
 "I won't speculate about that"
He finished speaking at 12:58 p.m. and walked to Pebble Beach. Link to Otter transcript copied below. (Again, I could barely see my phone in the light so please check)
Now at 2:45 p.m.
Finished at 4:00 p.m. flat. Questions, following Dr. Jha's appearance, didn't get past the second row.
Called at 4:56 p.m. and will last until 7:15 p.m.
Waiting for a good/bad weather call for the POTUS' travel tonight, which should come in an hour per the WH.
[
]
The pool is waiting at the Palm Room Doors.
The pool arrived at Cross Hall at 7:15 p.m. and is now seated ahead of President Biden's address.
The president began speaking at 7:31 p.m.
Per the WH there are 56 candles burning in the background, representing the victims of gun violence in all states and territories.
Also a correction on my last note, which I forgot to fix upon arrival: We're in the East Room.
(There has been a good weather call, so we're moving to the South Lawn after this.)
The president finished speaking at 7:48 p.m.
Gripping the front of the podium in a navy suit and dark speckled tie, he asked that Congress resume the provisions under the former assault weapons ban, expand background checks, and pass red flag and safe storage laws. Without an assault weapons ban, he called for the minimum purchasing age to be raised to 21. He also called for a repeal to the "liability shield" around firearms manufacturers and requested increased mental health services.
After finishing, he exited quietly and didn't take shouted questions about how to keep guns out of the wrong hands.
We're now gathering at 8:30 for an 8:40 p.m. departure via Marine 1.
The pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors for the POTUS' departure.
(apologies, also, for skipping a number in the reports)
The pool is in position and Marine 1 is in place. Waiting for an 8:40 exit.
The president walked out carrying a newspaper and a mask at 8:36 p.m.
He didn't take questions but he waved to the pool. Saluting, he climbed aboard the helicopter. His travel party joined soon after.
M1 lifted off at 8:42 p.m.
From the WH:
"Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews.
That's all from me tonight, folks. Have a good one!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
POTUS touched down on Marine One at JBA at 8.50pm.
After exiting Marine One he waved at pool but did not stop.
He boarded Air Force One at 8.55pm.
We are wheels up shortly for Delaware.
Air Force One was wheels down at Dover at 9.28pm.
POTUS exited AF1 at Dover at 9.38pm.
He did not speak to pool before getting in convoy.
Also seen getting off AF1 - Ron Klain.
Handing over to Travel Pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Air Force One touched down at Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Delaware at 9:27 PM.
President Biden exited at 9:37 PM and entered the motorcade. Travel pool watched from a distance.
At 9:40 PM the motorcade is rolling.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Air Force One:
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Jordan Montoya, Director of Advance and Trip Director for the First Lady
The motorcade arrived at the president's residence in Rehoboth Beach at 10:31 PM.
Pool bus peeled off from the motorcade a few blocks away and did not see him arrive at the house.
At 10:31 PM the White House called a travel/photo lid.