Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington. Pool joined the president's motorcade near his residence at 10:07am, headed to DANG.
Today's schedule is below. The president is headed back to Washington and will speak at the Capitol this afternoon.
The president's motorcade arrived on the tarmac at 10:16am. He and Jill boarded Air Force One moments later, Jill waved to press. Biden stopped to say he could not hear shouted questions. "We're headed out now."
We are wheels up shortly to JBA.
Asked on his way up the stairs if he would head to Buffalo, he said he didn't know if he would make it there before Asia. He's trying to figure out the schedule.
Air Force One was wheels up at 10:27am, touched down at JBA 27 mins later. We had a bit of wait before the Bidens deplaned at 11:16. They shook hands with their greeters.
Asked if he had spoken to the grieving families in Buffalo, POTUS said, "Not yet."
Per WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Air Force One to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
The motorcade departed JBA at 11:19, we are rolling to the Capitol.
The motorcade pulled in to the Capitol grounds at 11:38am. Pool did not see POTUS arrive. A small crowd had gathered on the outskirts of the grounds to watch the motorcade.
Pool is now in place. We spot Attorney General Merrick Garland on stage talking with others. Memorial service is set to begin as 12pm.
Per WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Capitol for the 41st Annual National Peace Officers' Memorial Service:
Approximately 20,000 attendees; 5000 family members
Advancement of the Colors by U.S. Capitol Police Host Agency
National Anthem, performed by Sergeant Sanford Swanson, West Lafayette
Police Department
Rick Snyder, Chaplain, National Fraternal Order of Police
Patrick Yoes, President, National Fraternal Order of Police
Glenda Lehmann, President, Grand Lodge Fraternal Order of Police Auxiliary
Musical tribute by Adam Doleac, Country Recording Artist
The President
WH says two minute warning is when the musical interlude ends.
Watch live: 
The president and First Lady emerged at 11:59am, winding their way to the stage flanked by columns of law enforcement.
An advancement of the colors opened the service. Following the national anthem and an invocation by Rick Snyder, the chaplain of the national fraternal order of police., Patrick Yoes, the president of the National Fraternal Order of Police delivered introductory remarks.
Sound cut out at 12:16 in the middle of a performance by performing artist Adam Doleac. He paused. The sun came out in full force second later, prompting the crowd to begin fanning themselves with their programs. Sound was restored minutes later, music resumed.
Yoes introduced POTUS, who is speaking now.
Senate sergeant at arms Karen Gibson, Senator Patrick Leahy, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta, the architect of the US Capitol Brett Blanton are also seated on the dais.
POTUS finished speaking at 12:46pm, after about 20 mins.
"Fund the police" line drew brief applause from the crowd.
Pool was escorted to the vans after POTUS finished but we were told he was going to lay a wreath on the memorial.
Motorcade is rolling to WH as of 12:53.
The president's motorcade pulled into the WH at 12:58pm, passing a graduation on the mall. The Bidens entered the residence minutes later.
And as of 1:03, we have a lid. Have a great afternoon!
From a White House official:
President Biden spoke with New York Governor Kathy Hochul today to offer his condolences and support during this difficult time. President Biden also reached out to Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown.