Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Germany. Air Force Two was wheels down at Ramstein at 4:45 am local time for a refueling stop. Takeoff from JBA was 2:58 pm.
We are expected to be here for about 90 mins before continuing on to Abu Dhabi International Airport.
Vice President Harris did not come back during the flight. See below for her complete statement under the wing before JBA departure where she addressed the shooting in Buffalo and spoke briefly about the trip to UAE. Before speaking to reporters under the wing, Harris chatted for a few minutes with CIA director William Burns and Climate Envoy John Kerry. Harris was greeted warmly and gave a broad smile while shaking Burns's hand. Kerry smiled as Harris appeared to say something while pointing at Burns.
I noted a number of the officials traveling with Harris on AF2 in my last note but here is the complete list provided on background from a White House Official:
Dir. William Burns U.S. Central Intelligence Agency
Sec. John Kerry Presidential Special Envoy for Climate
Lorraine Voles, Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Phil Gordon, National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Rebecca Lissner, Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President
Dean Lieberman, Special Advisor to the Vice President
Abram Paley, Special Advisor to the Vice President for the Middle East and North Africa
Asel Roberts, Senior Advisor to the Chief of Protocol
Please also note a correction to my last report which should have noted the death of Sheikh 
. Sheikh Mohamed is of course the new president.
Here is Harris's full statement under the wing before departure:
"I'm leading a delegation on behalf of the president and our administration to express our condolences. The United States takes quite seriously the strength of our relationship and partnership with the UAE and we are going there then to express our condolences but also as an expression of our commitment to the strength of that relationship and continuing to strengthen that relationship.
"I'll speak also about what happened in Buffalo. It's horrendous, it's horrendous.
"In our country we have to recognize that we may very well be experiencing an epidemic of hate towards so many Americans. That is wrong. It is taking on a level of violence in the case of what happened in Buffalo and we've seen it in other places in our country. And we all must speak out against it.
"Hate against anyone of us we should interpret as being hate against all of us, as a nation. We are a nation that prides ourselves on our diversity as an element of our strength. And to see what has happened. Yesterday, an 86 year old grandmother who had just been taking care of her husband in a nursing home was just going to get some groceries. A security guard who had dedicated his life as a law enforcement officer and was known in the community to be one of the kindest, most gentle people, who showed extraordinary heroism.
"I think we all have to know that this is something that we have to not only speak about, but we've got to do everything in our power as a nation to stop it, to stop it. There's too much at stake. We should be working at it and thinking about it, not hating one another."
On background as a senior administration official:
The Vice President believes it is important to travel to Abu Dhabi and offer condolences in person to demonstrate the support of President Biden, the Biden-Harris Administration, and the American people during this time. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan was a longtime friend of the United States, and this delegation both honors his legacy and points confidently to the future of relations between the US and UAE.
As part of her condolence visit with United Arab Emirates President Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed she will congratulate Sheikh Mohammed on his election as President of the UAE and underscore the importance the Biden-Harris administration places on the U.S.-UAE partnership. The composition of the delegation—including multiple members of the Cabinet—also demonstrates this.
The Vice President looks forward to further strengthening the U.S.-UAE partnership under Sheikh Mohammed's leadership, and will emphasize the Biden-Harris administration's intent to deepen bilateral ties across the fields of security, climate, space, technology, education, energy, and commerce.
The Vice President also recognizes the importance of U.S.-UAE cooperation to a secure, prosperous, and stable Middle East region, where the Biden-Harris administration aims to enhance the security of our friends and encourage further integration across borders and amongst countries of the region with shared security and economic interests.
Additional Background:
Pool did not see Vice President Harris during our stop in Germany.
Air Force Two will be wheels up shortly from Ramstein.
 Air Force Two touched down at Abu Dhabi International Airport at 3:05 pm local time. We have a hold on the plane for about 40 mins.
We were wheels up from Ramstein at 6:16 am local time.
There will no longer be a pool spray at the top of the meeting with the UAE leader, per the WH.
Pool is on the tarmac at Abu Dhabi International Airport. Vice President Harris is expected to exit AF2 shortly.
On background from a White House official:
Out of respect for the condolence visit, the meeting will be covered by official photographers only.
Earlier guidance:
At 
 the Vice President and the Presidential Delegation will have a condolence visit with President of the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. This condolence visit will have a pool spray at the top covered by the travel pool.
Vice President Harris exited Air Force Two at 4:50 pm local time under a cloudless sky.
John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, VPOTUS NSA Philip Gordon, CIA Director Bill Burns, and WH Middle East coordinator Brett McGurk followed behind her.
On the tarmac Harris was greeted by three UAE officials and four U.S officials.
Greeting her from U.S. on the tarmac:
Motorcade is rolling at 4:54 pm to a building at the airport where the meeting is happening. Pool is expecting a gaggle with VP on the tarmac following the meeting.

I'll share a picture of the arrival to Twitter @katiadoyl
Temperature on the ground is 97 degrees. A small plane emblazoned with "Fly Baghdad" pulled up ahead of AF2 while pool was awaiting VP.
Pool did not catch sight of VP as she entered the building for the meeting at 4:57 pm.
A change in programming. Pool was brought into the spray.
Pool entered the meeting room at 5:35 pm local time and was ushered out about a minute later.
Pool asked Harris if the she discussed oil with MBZ. She did not answer.
Upon entering, Harris and MBZ were talking but pool could not hear. Blinken, seated to Harris's right, was leaned over one arm of his chair and appeared to be listening.
Harris and delegation exited with building at 5:40 pm with pool holding in a van. Motorcade was rolling at 5:42 pm.
Before entering the meeting room, pool was brought to an atrium nearby the meeting room to wait at about 5:13 pm, where we are staged by a large gold-colored double door with latticework.
Two delegations passed us going into the room as we waited. Second was New Zealand. Details on first tk.
Thank you to OVP and U.S. aides on the ground for bringing pool into the meeting.
Vice President Harris motorcade arrived on the tarmac by AF 2 at 5:46 pm as pool set up for Harris remarks.
Harris gave brief comments on the visit but took no questions:
"We are here as a delegation on behalf of the President and the American people and our administration to express our condolences to a friend and a partner, the United Arab Emirates. to express congratulations also to the new President and to reaffirm the shared commitment we have to security and prosperity in this region and also how the American people have benefited from this relationship in terms of security and prosperity. And so we were here to discuss the strength of that partnership and that friendship and our commitment going forward to continue to work to strengthen that relationship."
Pool asked Harris what message she would bring back to President Biden but she did not answer.
Shortly after, pool overheard Secretary Kerry telling one UAE official, "We'll get on the phone" as he walked past us for goodbyes in front of AF2 steps.
Harris boarded AF2 after a few mins of goodbyes. We are wheels up momentarily for Ramstein.
Good evening from Germany. Air Force Two landed at Ramstein Air Base at 11:22 pm local time. The refuel is expected to take 1h40.
AF2 was wheels up from Abu Dhabi at 6:23 pm local.
Here is an updated transcript of VP's final remarks before boarding:
"I am here leading this presidential delegation on behalf of the president and the American people and our administration to express our condolences to a friend, to a partner, the United Arab Emirates, to express congratulations also to the new president and to reaffirm the shared commitment we have to security and prosperity in this region and also how the American people have benefited from this relationship in terms of security and prosperity. And so we were here to discuss the strength of that partnership and that friendship and our commitment going forward to continue to work at strengthening that relationship."
Pool did not see Vice President Harris during our stop in Germany.
Air Force Two will be wheels up shortly for JBA.
Good morning from Andrews Air Base.
Air Force Two touched down at JBA at 3:45 am.
Vice President Harris deplaned at 3:59 am. She was greeted by Lt. Col. Anne Amigelo, Commander, 89th Communications Squadron.
Harris boarded Marine Two at 4 am. M2 was wheels up at 4:03 am.
Harris took no questions from the press pool during the Sunday-Tuesday trip.
That's a wrap. It's been a pleasure serving as your pooler over the last 37 hours.
Some notes from the meeting with MBZ in Abu Dhabi Monday:
Pool entered the room where the delegation was meeting with MBZ after holding for about 20 mins in a circular marbled atrium just outside the doors.
A crystal chandelier hung from the ceiling in the hall where pool was staged. Pool could see floor length windows in the distance. Light bounced around the room.
Milling back and forth were at least a dozen men in traditional white robes. One woman dressed in a black abaya sat by the gold door outside the meeting room.
Inside, members of the U.S. presidential delegation were seated to Harris's right. UAE flags flanked Sheikh Mohamed on either side.
Seated to MBZ's left was King Philip of Belgium and a woman in a black abaya that pool did not recognize. A third seat to MBZ's left was empty. These attendees and the U.S. delegation did not wear masks.
Dressed in a light grey robe, MBZ perched on the right side of his chair leaning slightly towards Harris as he spoke and gesturing. Harris faced the Sheikh, hands clasped gently on her knees. Her expression was neutral while pool was in the room.
Two additional people dressed in white robes were staggered slightly behind MBZ, one of whom looked to be taking notes.
Secretary of State Blinken was seated to Harris's immediate right, followed by Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, Climate Envoy Kerry, VP NSA Philip Gordon, CIA Director Burns, and White House Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa Brett McGurk.
Gordon and the rest of the delegation were separated by about an armchair's-worth of space. A small table separated Burns and McGurk. Your pooler's view was obstructed and she did not catch a clear view of the other officials seated further to Harris's right.
Kerry, Austin, Gordon and Burns looked towards the U.S. pool as we entered, before returning attention to MBZ and Harris.
A waiting New Zealand delegation was seated in a block of seats further to MBZ's left. All wore masks.