Just under 100 days ago, President Biden reignited the Cancer Moonshot with renewed White House leadership and new ambitious goals: to reduce the death rate from cancer by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years, and improve the experience of people and their families living with and surviving cancer – and, by doing this and more, 
.
In March, in his first State of the Union Address, President Biden highlighted the Cancer Moonshot as part of his Unity Agenda for the nation. The White House convened the Cancer Cabinet to establish a prioritized agenda across government including the development of new interagency programs and collaborations and announced 
.
Last week, Cancer Cabinet agencies and departments hosted a virtual series of 10 roundtable discussions, 
, to inform and advance Cancer Moonshot priorities and the White House released a new webpage featuring the 
 living with cancer, survivors, and caregivers.
Today, leaders from the patient and caregiver community, foundations, non-profits, companies, health care providers, and others will come together at the White House and virtually to strategize how we can each act to make progress on the seven pillars of how we know cancer today. The goal is to identify impactful steps to: (1) improve cancer screening; (2) enhance prevention; (3) address inequities; (4) target effective treatments to patients; (5) develop approaches for deadly and rare cancers, including childhood cancers; (6) support patients, survivors, and caregivers; and (7) learn more from people living with cancer.
As part of the reignited Cancer Moonshot, the President and First Lady announced a call to action on cancer screening to jumpstart progress on the nearly 10 million screenings in the United States that were missed as a result of the pandemic, and to work to ensure that all Americans equitably benefit from the tools we have to prevent, detect, and diagnose cancer. The following announcements comprise an initial response to that call to action.
For example, this includes efforts to reduce disparities in access to cancer screening by bringing: high-quality care to New York City's Harlem, Washington, DC, and three other cities; mobile lung cancer screening to communities in Appalachia and rural parts of Tennessee, Georgia, and Alabama; support from screening through care to women in South Florida; and bilingual navigation services to reach Latinas in Baltimore and Washington, DC. These commitments also include business leaders around Columbus, Ohio committing to support employees with the time and resources needed to get their recommended cancer screenings and national efforts that will reach communities from coast to coast with knowledge, support, and access to cancer early detection.
To add your story, ideas, or new actions and collaborations, engage with us at: 
.
ACCC will build on its portfolio of resources and tools for health care providers, including "Fostering Excellence in Care and Outcomes in Patients with Stage III and IV NSCLC," "Improving Care Coordination: A Model for Lung Cancer Patients on Medicaid," and "Understanding & Improving Lung Cancer Treatment in Asian Americans & Pacific Islanders in the Community Setting." AstraZeneca convened the Lung Ambition Alliance (LAA) in 2019 with key partners, and is focused on accelerating advances in lung cancer survival and improving patient outcomes, with the goal of eliminating lung cancer as a cause of death. The LAA's initial goal is to double the five-year survival rate for lung cancer.
Nueva Vida addresses the unmet needs of Latinas through free culturally-competent services. Bilingual/bicultural patient navigators attend appointments to ensure timely delivery of diagnostic and treatment services, provide language and clinical interpretation, and facilitate financial support for medications and basic needs. Their Navigators build trusting, long-term relationships with clients to ensure critical needs are met and that patients can effectively plan for and adhere to treatment.
Family Reach offers comprehensive financial services that reduce patients' financial distress and improve access to care during treatment, regardless of immigration status. Nueva Vida's Navigators will leverage Family Reach's Financial Treatment Program to deliver financial tools that meet the unique needs of each family, ensuring they can both stay on treatment and keep their families housed and fed.
As part of its commitment, the RLCF will build on its support of the Memorial Sloan Kettering (MSK) Ralph Lauren Center in Harlem, New York. In Washington D.C., the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center will newly establish the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Prevention. The renamed and reimagined center will build on the existing practices of the Capital Breast Care Center and expand access to diagnostic and navigation services for the District's most underserved populations, focusing on breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer, the area's four most prevalent types of cancers. Going forward, RLCF will collaborate with Conquer Cancer®, the ASCO Foundation, to identify three additional grant recipients selected based on their National Cancer Institute-designation and demonstrated commitment to overcoming health disparities for communities in need.
Additionally, Fight CRC launched its Path to a Cure report, a professional, multidisciplinary publication, which seeks to summarize and communicate a plan for the colorectal cancer community to rally around: pushing forward critical areas of research; care for patients; and policy, with prevention and early detection as priority areas. Through convening key stakeholders, identifying gaps and opportunities in both research and public policy, Fight CRC is committing to identifying and implementing strategies to increase access to colorectal cancer screening in all communities as part of its Path to a Cure.