Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from JBA, where it's raining and 57 degrees.
I'll be your print pooler for the president's trip to Ohio this afternoon and return home to Wilmington this weekend.
Press Secretary Jen Psaki will gaggle aboard AF1 at 12:15pm, per WH schedule. Audio will be streamed live here: 
The president's remarks on manufacturing in Hamilton, Ohio, at 3:45pm ET will be streamed live here: 
Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
Marine One landed at 11:34 am ET. POTUS stepped off and saluted JBA greeters (listed below) before walking over to the plane. He waved to press and made a gesture to his rain coat but did not stopto speak to press. He turned and saluted before boarding AF1 at 11:38 pm ET.
We are headed to Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport for a 1pm ET arrival time.
AF1 is wheels up shortly.
Per WH:
Greeting the President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Cincinnati, Ohio today:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Chris Slevin, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director for the Office of Legislative Affairs
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Cara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
AF1 touched down at the Cincinnati /northern Kentucky International airport at 1pm ET.
POTUS deplaned at 1:10pm ET and saluted greeters before climbing into the Beast. He waved to press but did not stop to talk.
Psaki gaggled for about 22 minutes. She said the last time she knew POTUS tested negative for COVID was Tuesday but would check in on latest. She touched on questions on the ASEAN summit next week, the G7 call on Sunday, Ukraine, abortion and today's jobs report and risk of recession.
You can listen at 
We're rolling for the United Performance Metals in Hamilton, OH, at 1:13pm ET.
The motorcade pulled into the United Performance Metals facility at 1:50pm after a mostly uneventful 37-minute ride.
One onlooker waved a Trump / Pence sign while a few others filmed the motorcade along the route.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS before we broke off from the motorcade to enter through the back of the facility.
Press was escorted into the filing area near where Biden will later deliver remarks.
Pool was ushered into the first stop on the president's tour while he participated in a photo line. "A future made in America" signs were featured throughout the warehouse, some in the shape of the state of Ohio and others branded with Hamilton, OH.
Sens. Brown and Portman came in before the president and stood with John Slattery, CEO of GE Aviatoon near a 3D printing machine. NEC's Elisabeth Reynolds and Brian Deese were also spotted.
Sen. Sherrod Brown came over and spoke to press as we waited for POTUS. He said he expects the Bipartisan Innovation Act to pass by summer. Asked about advice for Ryan to win the Senate seat in the fall he said he needs to make the contrast with Republicans. He says Vance is changing on Trump as he changed on trade and GOP candidates were campaigning for one. Says administration can do more to address inflation.
Says he's heard nothing on the reconciliation bill but says negotiations are ongoing.
Participating in a photo line with the President (which pool did not see):
Participating in the photo line with the President:
Sherrod Brown, U.S. Senator (OH)
Robert Portman, U.S. Senator (OH)
Pat Moeller, Mayor of Hamilton, OH
Stephanie Summerow Dumas, Commissioner, Hamilton County
Aftab Pureval, Mayor of Cincinnati, OH
Allison Russo, Ohio State House Minority Leader
Greg Landsman, Council Member, Cincinnati City Council
Greeting the President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Cincinnati, Ohio today:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Chris Slevin, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director for the Office of Legislative Affairs
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Cara Abercrombie, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Pool is still awaiting POTUS.
Per WH:
Joining the tour on Additive Manufacturing at United Performance Metals with the President:
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Neal Orringer, Executive Director, ASTRO America (Applied Science and Technology Research Organization)
· Joanna Zelaya, CEO of Chicago Precision
· John Slattery, CEO of General Electric (GE) Aviation
· Michael Polo, CEO of ACMT
· Paolo Pal Cin, Raytheon Senior Vice President
· Alan Pearce, CEO of Fastech
· Rich Voorberg, President of Siemens North America
· Brian Neff, CEO of Sintavia
· Mike Madsen, CEO of Honeywell Aerospace
· Frank St. John, COO of Lockheed Martin
Biden entered at 2:39pm and immediately walked over to a table displaying parts that were made and printed by GE's additive machines. Slattery, the GE Aviation CEO, explained the machinery. Sens. Portman and Brown stood nearby.
"It's going to change things drastically," Biden said as they spoke. The conversation was hard to hear so please check audio.
Pool was moved to the next stop where POTUS examined more manufactured parts spread across a long table.
At stop #2:
"We're going to own the whole supply chain. It's going to be amazing," he said in regards to 3D printing.
On talking about competitiveness, he said "the Chinese are moving hard. Real hard."
He moves on to stop #3, which is just steps away and features additive manufacturing parts made for a jet engine.
"Two small outfits... three." Biden jokes after he's introduced.
He's also shown an additive-made cap for a fuel tank on a national security satellite.
Pool was escorted out at 2:56pm ET and taken back to the filing center.
There's about 100 guests including leadership and workers from companies in the public-private partnership, as well as local stakeholders and elected officials, according to the White House.
The podium is set against a backdrop of shelves of additive manufacturing parts and adorned with bunting flags and "A future made in America" signs. An American flag and Ohio state flag are displayed on each side of the podium.
POTUS walked in at 3:09pm ET and took the stage with Sens. Brown and Portman.
You can watch the speech here: 
Peter Neuberger, President and CEO of United Performance Metals
Senator Rob Portman
Senator Sherrod Brown
The President
I'll send any notable color from the room.
Biden wrapped his speech at 3:43 pm ET after speaking for about 25 minutes.
He urged Congress to "pass the damn bill," referring to the competition bill, to keep up with China, help solve the semi-conductor shortage and bring America's manufacturing back. He addressed concerns over inflation and gas prices. "We learned the hard way that we can't fight inflation if supply chains buckle."
Biden also reflected on how things have changed since when he first got to the Senate. He said they used to "fight like hell" but "at least we ended up eating lunch together. Things have changed, we've got to bring it back."
Pool was escorted out at 3:55pm and did not lay eyes on POTUS before we were escorted back to the vans.
Following the speech, POTUS stepped off the stage to speak with members of the audience. He was unmasked.
The motorcade is rolling for the airport at 4:02pm ET. Please note we have the rare pleasure of being ahead of schedule.
Next stop: Delaware.
The motorcade arrived at the airport at 4:40 ET.
The rain has followed us here to Ohio.
POTUS stepped out of the Beast and boarded AF1 at 4:42pm as press was getting out of the vans. He did not stop to talk to press.
We're wheels up for Delaware shortly.
AF1 was wheels down at DANG at 6:02pm ET.
No visitors to the back of the plane but pool was treated to mini cupcakes for Jen Psaki's last flight.
POTUS deplaned at 6:10 pm ET. He saluted the greeter and paused to speak to him before climbing into the Beast.
Apologies for not mentioning earlier but we were on the smaller plane today (tail no. 90016 for those who are interested).
Motorcade is rolling at 6:13pm.
Motorcade arrived at the president's residence at 6:25pm ET.
Pool is headed to the RON and we have a travel/photo lid.
Have a great weekend.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from a very rainy White House.
POTUS is due to depart en route Joint Base Andrews at 11am on his way to United Performance Metals in Hamilton, Ohio, where at 3.45pm he will deliver remarks 'calling on Congress to pass legislation like the Bipartisan Innovation Act'.
POTUS is due to arrive in New Castle, Delaware at 6.55pm.
Pool (with lots of umbrellas) has gathered inside the Palm Room awaiting POTUS's departure.
POTUS emerged from the south portico at 11.19am. A reporter asked about the latest jobs numbers. POTUS gave a thumbs up and appeared to say "Good".
Your pooler shouted a question about expanding the Supreme Court. POTUS seemed to hesitate for a moment but then pointed in the direction of Marine Ona and walked quickly towards it, not carrying an umbrella.
Staff followed him and Marine One took off in the rain at 11.21am.
The White House sends the following about today's trip:
'Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives'
From the White House:
'The gaggle will start at around 12:30 PM. You can tune in at wh.gov/live'