The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is making a once-in-a-generation investment in America’s infrastructure and competitiveness that will create good-paying union jobs, grow our economy, invest in communities, combat climate change, and help lower costs for families.
To make the most of these historic investments and ensure infrastructure projects are delivered on time and on budget, the Biden-Harris Administration is releasing a new 
 to strengthen and accelerate Federal permitting and environmental reviews by fully leveraging existing permitting authorities, as well as new provisions in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
The Action Plan outlines the Administration’s strategy for ensuring that Federal environmental reviews and permitting processes are effective, efficient, and transparent, guided by the best available science to promote positive environmental and community outcomes, and shaped by early and meaningful public engagement. Taken together, these new steps will help strengthen supply chains, lower costs for families, grow our clean energy economy, revitalize communities across the country, support good-paying jobs, and deliver infrastructure investments on task, on time, and on budget without unnecessary bureaucratic delay.
Long overdue improvements to our nation’s ports, airports, rail, and roads will help ease inflationary pressures, create conditions for businesses to thrive, and strengthen supply chains – which will ultimately lower costs for families. Building new clean energy generation and transmission projects will improve access to affordable clean energy that powers homes and businesses at lower costs. Responsible and sustainable domestic sourcing of critical minerals and materials will power our clean energy economy and reduce reliance on unreliable foreign supply chains. And delivering clean residential water supplies, high-speed internet, healthy forests and open space to all Americans, especially those historically underserved, is critical to make us stronger.
The Action Plan is the latest example of the Administration taking action to swiftly deliver the benefits of infrastructure investment to the American people through well-designed projects that support the President’s ambitious climate and clean energy goals. Putting the Action Plan into place will result in better permitting outcomes, enhanced predictability for project sponsors, and increased accountability across Federal agencies to execute efficiently and effectively.
The Permitting Action Plan is built on five key elements that will help ensure the timely and effective delivery of crucial upgrades to America’s infrastructure.
Ensuring early coordination and effective communication across Federal agencies is critical for moving infrastructure projects forward efficiently and on-time. Under the Permitting Action Plan, the Administration will:
Communities and project proponents all benefit from having clear information about the schedules, key milestones and deadlines, and public comment opportunities for the environmental review and permitting of major projects. Timeline goals and up-to-date information increase accountability, encourage efficiency, enable greater public participation in project decisions, and build greater trust in government. Under the Permitting Action Plan, agencies will:
Proactive, early, and ongoing engagement with the public, including disadvantaged, underserved, or overburdened communities, and State, Tribal, local, and territorial partners is fundamental to delivering timely projects that serve the needs and priorities of communities across the country. As part of a robust engagement strategy, which will help inform agencies’ decision-making, agencies will:
Providing responsive technical assistance and support helps project sponsors, permit applicants, affected communities, Tribal communities, and other stakeholders navigate the environmental review and permitting process effectively and efficiently. To address this need, agencies will:
Timely, informative environmental reviews that are guided by the best available science and help deliver positive environmental and community impact require sufficient levels of skilled agency staff and effective use of budgetary resources. Agencies should therefore: