Pool Reports by 
, 
Morning. I'm your print pool reporter today.
For those wondering, there has been no update to today's public schedule:
Closed Press
East Room
The White House also hasn't provided any updates regarding whether POTUS has called Texas Gov. Greg Abbott again or spoken with Democratic lawmakers about their response. There is no update concerning Uvalde travel plans either.
Feel free to reach out with any questions.
A reminder that the event will be livestreamed here: 
In attendance for the President and the Vice President's remarks, per the White House:
Families of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Elijah McClain, Amir Locke, and Atatiana Jefferson, among others
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Secretary Deb Haaland
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas
Senator Dick Durbin (IL)
Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)
Representative Karen Bass (CA-37)
Representative Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Representative Cori Bush (MO-01)
Representative Lou Correa (CA-46)
Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)
Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Representative Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01)
Representative Jamie Raskin (MD-08)
State and local elected officials
Members of the Administration
Civil rights leaders
Law enforcement representatives
Survivors
Run of Show:
The Vice President
The President
Pool was called to gather at 3:46 p.m.
Joining the President on stage for the signing of the Executive Order:
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Secretary Deb Haaland
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas
Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
Congresswoman Karen Bass (CA-37)
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18)
Congresswoman Joyce Beatty (OH-3)
Congressman Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Prior to the event, Sen. Jon Ossoff could be seen greeting guests toward the back of the room, while DHS Secretary Alejandro Majorkas and Attorney General Merrick Garland spoke with a seated Rep. Jerry Nadler toward the front. Reps. Karen Bass and Sheila Jackson Lee were spotted chatting with Rev. Al Sharpton in the front row. Ben Crump also talked with Sharpton for a while in the middle aisle, before the lawyer took photos of the minister. White House domestic policy adviser Susan Rice greeted guests as well.
An image of the stage set-up can be found here: 
From a White House Official: The President will address the shooting in Uvalde, Texas at the top of his remarks this afternoon.
POTUS commented on the increased death toll after the Uvalde, Texas shooting.
He confirmed FLOTUS preview of an upcoming trip to the grieving community: "I will be traveling to Texas in the coming days."
He also called on the Senate to confirm his ATF director nominee, Steve Dettelbach.
POTUS ended his remarks at 4:38 p.m.
He then made his way over to the signing desk and shook hands with Sens. Cory Booker and Dick Durbin, as well as Rep. Karen Bass.
He also greeted George Floyd's daughter, Gianna, saying "you're getting so big." Gianna sat down at the desk and he recounted how she once told him her daddy was going to change the world.
POTUS went on to chat with Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, while VP spoke with Gianna.
POTUS is currently greeting other guests.
POTUS left the event at 4:56 p.m. He did not respond to shouted questions.
A travel/photo lid was called at 5:19 p.m. Have a good night!