Pool Reports by 
, 
Motorcade is rolling at 7:01 am.
POTUS and the first lady are heading to morning Mass at St. Joseph on the Brandywine in Wilmington.
Motorcade arrived at St. Joseph on the Brandywine at 7:04 am.
The Bidens immediately entered the church. The first lady was carrying a bouquet of pink flowers.
Pool is holding in the press bus.
The Bidens exited the church with family members at 7:30 a.m. and walked slowly to Beau Biden's grave in the church cemetery. Beau died seven years ago today.
Family members visiting the gravesite included the president's grandchildren and sister, Valerie Biden Owens.
Motorcade is rolling at 7:46 a.m. to Brandywine Creek State Park, where POTUS will board Marine One for the flight back to Washington.
Motorcade returned to the president's residence at 7:50 am instead of heading directly to Marine One departure site.
Pool is holding nearby.
Motorcade is rolling at 8:06 am to Marine One departure site.
Motorcade arrived at Brandywine Creek State Park at 8:13 am.
POTUS and the first lady boarded Marine One a minute later. The helicopter was wheels up at 8:18 am.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
A special shout-out to Hailey Fuchs of Politico for the much-needed assist in pooling this weekend.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from the White House.
In-town pool call time is 8:50.
POTUS and the First Lady are scheduled to arrive in the next hour via Marine One.
The area outside the White House is closed to tourists right now. There are a few white buses carrying families parked outside. The testing center was busier than usual. I am working to get more information about these families.
Pool told to gather by 9:05 for POTUS arrival on the South Lawn.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 9:11 a.m. POTUS and FLOTUS exited Marine One at 9:14. He is wearing a black suit and sunglasses. FLOTUS is wearing a black suit and sunglasses.
POTUS took several questions from the press. Topics included Ukraine and Texas school shooting.
Some highlights: He spoke about the health impact of modern firearms and the Second Amendment.
Pooler will get you more direct quotes shortly.
From the White House press office:
Travelling with President and the First Lady on Marine One to the White House
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
POTUS spoke to the press for about 5 minutes. More quotes to come.
Q: Do you feel more motivated to act on guns now?
POTUS: "I've been pretty motivated all along. The folks who were victimized, their families, they spent three hours and 40 minutes with me. They waited all that time. Some came two hours early. The pain is palpable. I think a lot of it is unnecessary. I'm going to continue to push."
Q: Is there anything different on how Republicans will approach the gun reform question now?
POTUS: "Since I haven't spoken to them, I don't know."
Q: Are you going to send long-range rocket systems to Ukraine?
A: "We are not going to send to Ukraine rocket systems that can strike into Russia."
Final quotes.
Q: Are you going to send long-range rocket systems to Ukraine?
POTUS: "We are not going to send to Ukraine rocket systems that strike into Russia."
Q: Is there one element, is it age, is it red flag, is there some component that you think could be most successful now?
POTUS:
"That's hard to say because I have not been negotiating with any of the Republicans yet."
"There's only one reason for something that can fire 100 shots."
Talked about hearings he held as a senator about "rational gun laws." Talked about a visit to trauma hospital in New York.
"They showed me an x-ray."
"A 9 mm bullet blows the lung out of the body."
"There's simply no rational basis for it in terms of self protection, hunting."
"The Constitution, the Second Amendment was never absolute. You couldn't buy a cannon when the Second Amendment was passed."
"I think things have gotten so bad that everybody is getting more rational about it."
Q: I know you want Congress to act. Do you believe as president you have a particular responsibility now?
POTUS: "I can't dictate this stuff. I can do the things I've done and any executive action I can take, I'll continue to take. But I can't outlaw a weapon. I can't change a background check. I can't do that."
Q: McConnell directed Sen. Cornyn to search for a compromise. Do you really think there's something there?
POTUS: "I don't know."
"McConnell is a rational Republican. Cornyn is as well."
"I've got to go in, I've got the Gold Star families."
The White House corrects Annie Tomasini's title. It should be: Assistant to the President 
.
Lid until 11:15.
More from the press office on the families your pooler spotted outside the White House this morning.
This morning, the president and the first lady hosted a breakfast in honor of Memorial Day in the East Room with service members and their families. Attendees included:
Pool is being told to gather for the president's visit to Arlington National Cemetery by 11:20. Will advise when motorcade is rolling.
Motorcade is rolling from the South Lawn as of noon. Pool didn't see the president.
Motorcade arrived at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier inside Arlington National Cemetery at 12:14 p.m. Pool did not see POTUS exit the Beast. Pool is stationed outdoors on the right side of the steps and across from a wreath.
Details from the ride over:
Motorcade passed hundreds of people lining the street outside the entrance and along the motorcade's route once it entered the cemetery. The people waved and some held up their phones to take pictures/video.
The headstones the motorcade passed on the way to the president's destination have American flags planted next to each of them.
Gunfire could be heard as motorcade rolled through cemetery. It appears to be part of the procedure for the president's arrival. Members of the military lined the road as well.
See below from White House press office.
Upon arrival at Arlington National Cemetery, the President and First Lady will be greeted by the Vice President and Second Gentlemen, as well as:
[
]
Dr. Biden and Mr. Emhoff, surrounded by a few people, walked to the steps at 12:23.
POTUS, VPOTUS, and Defense Secretary Austin walked to an area in front of the steps at 12:25 p.m. All three are wearing black suits.
A band played the national anthem. POTUS then laid a wreath. He made the sign of the cross.
Pool is now on the move.
Last pool report should have been labeled #10. Apologies.
Pool is holding in the back of an amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery. Pool is told the event is open to the public and will be streamed on the White House's YouTube page.
There are hundreds of people here. American flags are draped around the amphitheater. It is hot. Dozens of audience members are using paper fans. Most of the audience members are in casual clothes. Guests seated near the stage are dressed formally. Dr. Biden is seated near the stage.
POTUS walked onto the stage accompanied by the defense secretary and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Hail to the chief played.
More to come.
Pool is holding in the vans as of 1:11 for the president's departure from Arlington National Cemetery.
Pool did not see president exit the amphitheater. Will advise when motorcade is rolling.
From the press office:
In attendance for the President's Remarks at the National Memorial Day Service are approximately 3000 attendees, including Department of Defense leadership, military families, members and leadership of military and veteran service organizations, and the general public.
Speaking Program:
Motorcade is rolling as of 1:28.
Motorcade arrived at the White House at 1:40. Pool saw Dr. Biden enter the West Wing at 1:42 but did not see the president.
No word yet on when to gather for the tree planting ceremony.
Pool is stationed on the South Lawn for tree planting ceremony.
Staffer tells press that the president and Dr. Biden will plan a southern magnolia tree. It is a descendant of the Andrew Jackson tree near.
POTUS and Dr. Biden exited the Oval Office at 1:59. There are two shovels waiting for them.
The president and Dr. Biden each shoveled some dirt on top of the roots of the tree. They held hands in a circle around the tree with the other attendees and appeared to be praying.
The president and Dr. Biden left at 2:07. They entered the White House through the doors by the South Lawn.
From the White House press office:
Participating in the Tree Planting Ceremony in honor of surviving military families:
Travel/photo lid as of 2:15.