Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Tokyo. I will be your pooler for the final day of President Biden's trip to Asia.
Passing along today's schedule, which will include meetings with the Quad Leaders and a return flight back to Washington (just in time for Georgia primary results.)
We are currently holding at the RON awaiting President Biden's departure for the Kantei, the official residence of the prime minister.
Please note: The pool was informed that the bilateral meetings this afternoon (at 2:30 p.m. with Modi and 3:15 p.m. with Albanese) will be held in a part of the Kantei where there is no wireless service and very limited cell service. The pool has been told that it may be difficult to transmit during that portion of the day.
We were told that cell service will be much better for the Quad meetings earlier in the day. Your pooler will do his best to expedite all pool reports today.
We are rolling from the Okura at 10:25 a.m. JST heading to the Kantei, the official residence of the prime minister, for meetings with the Quad Leaders. The pool did not see President Biden before we departed the hotel's garage.
President Biden's motorcade arrived at the Kantei at 10:27 a.m. after a quick 2-minute ride. The streets were lined with onlookers bearing cameras and a number of news crews with video cameras.
We were rushed to a large, modernist ballroom for the start of the Quad meeting. We did not witness the arrival nor the family photo of the leaders despite being told that was the first stop.
The four leaders walked in at 10:34 am and the meeting is now beginning.
The Quad meeting opened at 10:35 am.
The four leaders were seated at separate white tables with members of their staff seated behind them in a high-ceiling, modern wood-paneled ballroom.
President Biden is joined by Secretary of State Antony Blinken, USTR Amb. Katherine Tai, National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Amb. Kurt Campbell.
Japanese Prime Minister Kishida opened the meeting by welcoming the participants and thanking new Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese for coming to the meeting so soon after his election.
Mr. Kishida said it was important for the leaders to get together to make a "firm commitment" to "a free and open Indo-Pacific" and spoke about some of the topics of the meeting, including climate change countermeasures, maritime issues and technology.
Mr. Albanese said it was an honor that one of his first act as prime minister was to attend the Quad meetings
"We are committed to the Quad," he said, adding that Australia would be taking ambitious action on climate change, including a new target to reduce emissions by 43 percent by 2030.
Prime Minister Modi then spoke, congratulating Mr. Albanese on his victory and described his country's work on Covid-19 and other issues and praised the work of the Quad. "This is ensuring peace, prosperity and stability in the Indo-Pacific region," Mr. Modi said, saying the group was a "force for good."
Mr. Biden said the participants were gathering at "this transformative moment in the world - we are at a transformative moment." He thanked Prime Minister Kishida for hosting and said it was good to see Prime Minister Modi in person and thanked him "for your continued commitment to making sure democracies deliver." He joked with Prime Minister Albanese: "If you fall asleep while you're here, that's OK," noting that he had just been elected.
Mr. Biden then spoke about the importance of the Quad in responding to Covid-19, partnering on 5G supply chains and launching the Quad fellowship program. But much of his remarks focused on the war in Ukraine.
"At the same we are navigating a dark hour in our shared history," Mr. Biden said. "Russia's brutal and unprovoked war against Ukraine has triggered a humanitarian catastrophe. And innocent civilians are put into the streets and millions of refugees are internally displaced as well as exiled."
Mr. Biden continued:
"This is more than just a European issue. It's a global issue. The fact is that when you turn on the television and see what Russia's doing now, it appears to me that Putin is trying to extinguish a culture. He's not trying to hit military targets any more, he's taking out every school, every culture, every natural history museum."
"As long as Russia continues this war we are going to be partners and lead a global response," Mr. Biden said.
Pool and other media ushered out at 10:51 am.
h/t Cleve Wootson and Asma Khalid.
Passing along the participants in the Quad Leaders' Summit, per White House:
The President is participating in the second in-person Quad Leaders' Summit with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, and Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia.
U.S. Delegation:
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Katherine Tai, United States Trade Representative
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
T.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Ms. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Director for Indo-Pacific Affairs, National Security Council
Scott Nathan, CEO, US International Development Finance Conropration
Japan Delegation:
H.E. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister for Foreign Affairs
Mr. Kihara Seiji, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary
Mr. Isozaki Yoshihiko, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary
Mr. Akiba Takeo, Secretary General of National Security
Mr. Shimada Takashi, Executive Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Nakagome Masahi, Executive Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Okano Masataka, Deputy Minister for Foreign Policy
India Delegation:
Dr. S Jaishankar, External Affairs Minister
Mr. Ajit Doval, National Security Adviser
Mr. Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Foreign Security
Ms. Vani Roa, Additional Secretary (AMS), MEA
Mr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Abhishek Shukla, Director of the Prime Minister's Office
Australia Delegation:
Senator the Hon Penny Wong, Minister for Foreign Affairs
Mr. Tim Gartrell, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
Ms. Ashlee Brady, Senior Adviser, Office of the Foreign Minister
H.E. Jan Adams AO PSM, Australian Ambassador to Japan
Mr. Scott Dewar, Deputy Secretary, National Security and International Policy and Quad Sherpa, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
Mr. Justin Hayhurst, Deputy Secretary, Geostrategic Group, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
Mr. Mathew Fox
Please note, Scott Nathan, CEO, US International Development Finance Corporation, did not attend the Quad Leaders' Summit. His name was inadvertently included on an earlier list provided by the White House.
At the end of an event on the Quad Fellowship, President Biden responded briefly to a few shouted questions on his comments yesterday about Taiwan:
Mr. Biden, standing alongside the three other leaders for a photo session, was asked if the policy of strategic ambiguity toward Taiwan was dead. He responded, "No."
He was then asked to elaborate and said, "No."
Another reporter asked if Mr. Biden would send troops to Taiwan if China invaded.
Mr. Biden responded: "The policy has not changed at all. I stated that when I made my statement yesterday."
A separate pool report on the fellowship event is forthcoming.
The pool joined a large international media contingent inside a long, narrow corridor of the Kantei for the launch of the Quad Fellowship. Light wood paneling lines the room, which has roughly 30-feet-high ceilings. A tall piece of framed Japanese artwork graces one of the walls.
The four leaders arrived at 12:41 p.m.
President Biden stood alongside P.M.s Kishida, Modi and Albanese in front of a blue-and-white checkered backdrop that said: "Quad Fellowship by Schmidt Futures." They were flanked by their nations' four flags. The fellowship program is administered by the philanthropic organization founded by former Google chairman and CEO Eric Schmidt.
The event's attendees also included Eric Braverman, CEO of Schmidt Futures; Amb. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, president of Japan Foundation; and Professor Yoichiro Matsumoto, science and technology adviser to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan.
The leaders watched a launch video that included Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Braverman and then Mr. Kishida stood at a lectern and spoke about the fellowship program.
Mr. Kishida said they were hopeful their nations' students would "apply for this challenging but truly fascinating fellowship program."
"We conclude by wishing that this fellowship will become a bridge that connects our four nations," Mr. Kishida said.
The fellowship will sponsor 100 American, Australian, Indian, and Japanese students (25 per country) to receive scholarships to study in the United States annually for graduate degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields.
The first class will begin their studies in the fall of 2023.
The four leaders and Mr. Braverman then posed for photographs - and then Mr. Biden briefly answered a question about his Taiwan comments yesterday.
The event ended at 12:47 p.m.
The pool was taken to Prime Minister Kishida's residence - a brick modernist home located a short walk from the main building at the Kantei.
President Biden's first meeting was with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
The pool was ushered into a room at 2:35 p.m. Mr. Biden and Mr. Modi were seated at the end of a wood-paneled room near a soaring sand-colored brick fireplace. A small table with white and yellow flowers was placed between the two leaders. Their staff members were seated facing each other. The floor was covered with an emerald green carpeting.
Please check quotes against transcript - at times it was difficult to hear the speakers and translators.
Mr. Biden spoke first, noting that when he spoke to Mr. Modi during a virtual call in April, "you highlighted the need for democracies to deliver. I think that's what we're doing today. We're talking about how to deliver through the Quad and for the U.S.-Indian population as well. We're delivering for our people and for the wider world."
Mr. Biden noted that he announced the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework and the Indo-Pacific Maritime Awareness program here in Tokyo. He also said he was pleased they had reached an agreement for U.S. Development Finance Corp. to continue to work in India on vaccine production and clean energy.
The president then spoke about Ukraine. "We'll also discuss the ongoing effects of Russia's .... unjustified invasion of Ukraine and the effect it has on the entire global war order. The U.S. and India will be continuing to consult closely on how to mitigate it."
Mr. Biden said there was so much the two countries could do together.
Mr. Modi offered praise for their participation in a "very positive and useful Quad summit." He said the two nations shared a "strategic partnership, in the true sense, a partnership of trust."
Mr. Modi said their "common interest in defense and other matters and our shared values have indeed strengthened this partnership of trust." He added that their "strong economic cooperation makes our partnerships even more meaningful."
He noted that the two countries' trade and investments are steadily on the rise and he expressed confidence that the U.S. and India will see progress in the investments between the two countries and in cooperation on technology.
He said the Quad and the IPEF are two examples of "cooperation and positive momentum."
"I am absolutely sure that the India-U.S. friendship will continue to be a force for good, for peace and stability, for sustainability of the planet."
After Mr. Modi wrapped up his statement, Mr. Biden did not respond to shouted questions about whether he would push Modi to take a tougher stance on Russia. The pool was escorted from the room at 1:46 p.m.
President Biden's bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi began at 2:35 p.m. and ended at 3:11 p.m., per the White House.
Here's the full quote from Mr. Biden when he raised the war in Ukraine with Mr. Modi, h/t Seung Min Kim of the Washington Post:
"We'll also discuss the ongoing effects of Russia's brutal and unjustified invasion of Ukraine and the effect it has on the entire global world order," Mr. Biden said. "The U.S. and India are going to continue consulting closely on how to mitigate these negative effects."
The White House also passes along the participants:
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
T.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Ms. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Director for Indo-Pacific Affairs, National Security Council
H.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India
Dr. S Jaishankar, External Affairs Minister
Mr. Ajit Doval, National Security Adviser
Mr. Vinay Mohan Kwatra, Foreign Security
Ms. Vani Roa, Additional Secretary (AMS), MEA
Mr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister
Mr. Abhishek Shukla, Director of the Prime Minister's Office
Please note, the full U.S. delegation for the meeting with Prime Minister Modi, which included Scott Nathan of the U.S International Development Finance Corp.
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Scott Nathan, Chief Executive Officer of the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC)
T.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
T.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council
T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Ms. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Director for Indo-Pacific Affairs, National Security Council
The pool was brought into the same meeting room at 2:35 p.m. for President Biden's first bilateral meeting with new Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese.
Mr. Biden opened with a joke for Mr. Albanese. "I know you've been on the job a long time," Mr. Biden said, and then expressed appreciation for Mr. Albanese traveling to Tokyo for the Quad summit so soon after his election last weekend. Mr. Biden said it showed that Australia was "all-in" on the relationship and it was important for them to demonstrate, as democracies, that they can deliver for their people.
"I'm looking forward to getting to know you a bit on the personal," Mr. Biden said. "I was always kidded by Barack Obama when I would say, 'all politics is personal.'"
Mr. Biden said the U.S.-Australian alliance had long been an anchor in the Indo-Pacific and he expressed optimism for their alliance and offered his congratulations to Mr. Albanese.
Mr. Albanese said it had been an honor to start his role as prime minister with his meetings in Tokyo with members of the Quad. Then Mr. Albanese told a story about spending time in the United States.
He said that "many years ago, as a young fellow," when he was in his 20s, he was a guest of the U.S. State Department for a 5-week program to learn about the interaction of groups with the U.S. government.
Mr. Albanese said he spent time with an array of organizations, "everything from the National Rifle Association, to the Sierra Club, to Planned Parenthood to the full kit-and-caboodle."
"You're a brave man!" Mr. Biden exclaimed, standing up from his chair to shake hands with Mr. Albanese. The members of their staffs broke into laughter.
Mr. Albanese also drew laughs when he said the State Department "was good enough as well to manage to justify a trip to Vegas as well." He said it was a good trip for him.
Mr. Albanese then spoke about the durability of the two nation's alliance and was looking forward to strengthening it.
Mr. Albanese noted that he was part of the Australian government that brought the U.S. Marines to the northern Australian city of Darwin (beginning in 2012 during the Obama administration when Mr. Biden served as vice president).
"I remember that," Mr. Biden said.
He concluded his remarks by saying he looked forward to holding the Quad Leaders meeting next year in Australia and Mr. Biden invited him to visit him in Washington, "when you have the time, sooner than later."
The pool was ushered out at 3:27 p.m. Mr. Biden did not respond to a shouted question on North Korea. The bilateral meeting concluded at 4 p.m., according to the White House.
Here is the list of participants:
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
T.H. Daniel Kritenbrink, Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs
T.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Southeast Asia, National Security Council
Mr. Chris Johnstone, Director for East Asia, National Security Council
The Hon Anthony Albanese MP, Prime Minister of Australia
Senator the Hon. Penny Wong, Minister for Foreign Affairs
Mr. Tim Gartrell, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime Minister
Mr. Greg Moriarty, Secretary of the Department of Defence
Mr. Andrew Shearer, Director-General of the Office of National Intelligence
H.E. Jan Adams, Australian Ambassador to Japan
Mr. Roderick Brazier, First Assistant Secretary, International Division, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet
At 4:06 p.m., President Biden's motorcade is rolling from the Kantei.
President Biden's motorcade arrived at The Okura hotel at 4:09 p.m. after an uneventful, 3-minute ride past dozens of onlookers taking photographs of the motorcade along the sidewalk.
Mr. Biden will be meeting with staff members of the U.S. embassy here in Tokyo.
At 5:14 p.m. local time, President Biden's motorcade is rolling from The Okura hotel in Tokyo.
President Biden's motorcade arrived at the Hardy Barracks Landing Zone in Tokyo at 5:30 pm after a roughly 15-minute ride mostly along an elevated highway through the heart of Tokyo.
Near a turn, your pooler spotted workers at a Fujifilm office watching the motorcade go by. A few blocks from the entrance to the landing zone, people lined the sidewalks to watch the motorcade and take photographs
The pool did not see Mr. Biden board Marine One, which he will be taking to Yokota Air Base for the flight home.
Marine One was wheels up at 5:35 pm.
White House passes this along:
Traveling with the President on Marine One from Hardy Barracks to Yokota Air Base:
Ambassador Katherine Tai, United States Trade Representative
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Greeting the President upon arrival at Yokota Air Base:
Mr. Odawara Kiyoshi, State Minister for Foreign Affairs
T.H. Rahm Emanuel, U.S. Ambassador to Japan
H.E. Tomita Koji, Ambassador of Japan to the U.S.
Lt. General Ricky Rupp, Base Commander, Yokota Air Base.
The pool and staff members arrived at Yokota Air Base aboard a Chinook helicopter at 5:59 p.m. and proceeded to the area under the wing of Air Force One.
Marine One landed at Yokota a few minutes after our arrival at 6:05 p.m. U.S. Ambassador to Japan Rahm Emanuel and his wife, Amy Rule, were on hand for Mr. Biden's departure.
President Biden walked off Marine One, spoke briefly to Amb. Rufus Gifford, removed his aviator sunglasses and then greeted the dignitaries. He boarded Air Force One at 6:10 pm, turned and waved to the assembled media and onlookers and then entered the aircraft.
CNN was airing on the press cabin and your pooler spotted a live-shot from Kevin Liptak.
We will be wheels up shortly. Next stop: Alaska.
Air Force One was wheels down at Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson in Anchorage, Alaska at 7:48 a.m. local time.
The roughly 6 1/2 hour flight was uneventful, with no visitors to the press cabin. We will be refueling here for about 90 minutes.
Air Force One began rolling at roughly 8:48 a.m. local time after a roughly one-hour refueling stop.
The pool did not see President Biden on the ground during the Anchorage re-fuel but several members of his staff, including WH National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan and Communications Director Kate Bedingfield, got out to take a walk along the Tarmac at Joint Base Elemendorf-Richardson.
We are wheels up shortly. Next stop: Joint Base Andrews.
Air Force One is wheels down at Joint Base Andrews at 6:51 p.m. ET after a nearly 14-hour flight from Tokyo, along with an hour-long refueling stop in Alaska.
Re-sending this report that was transmitted from Air Force One through a wire-call on the school shooting in Texas. Technical difficulties delayed the transmission.
At 5:16 p.m. ET, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre came to the press cabin of Air Force One to read a statement on the Texas school shooting. She told the press pool that she had just tweeted the following statement.
Ms. Jean-Pierre said: "President Biden has been briefed on the horrific news of the elementary school shooting in Texas and will continue to be briefed regularly as information becomes available. His prayers are with the families impacted by this awful event and he will speak this evening when he arrives back at the White House."
Ms. Jean-Pierre said President Biden was briefed aboard Air Force One by Deputy Chief of Staff Jen O'Malley-Dillon and other members of his senior team who are traveling with the president.
The pool was just told that President Biden will be speaking from the Roosevelt Room at 8:15 p.m. The White House says President Biden will order the flag of the United States flown at half-staff at the White House and all public buildings and grounds and federal government buildings until sunset May 28.
More TK.
President Biden, dressed in a dark suit and tie, exited Air Force One at 6:58 p.m. ET and walked down the staircase of the aircraft. He did not respond to shouted questions about the school shooting in Texas.
Mr. Biden saluted and shook hands with Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing and then they walked toward Marine One. Mr. Biden boarded the aircraft, followed by staff members.
Mr. Biden will be addressing the nation on the shooting at 8:15 p.m. ET from the Roosevelt Room.
The White House passes along the travelers with President Biden on Marine One back to the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One will be wheels up shortly.
Handing this over to the in-town travel pool. Thank you.
We received some interest in photographs from the pool wire calls today from Air Force One after the Texas school shooting. Passing these along following consultation with the White House wranglers. Thanks.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
The White House has referred pool to the tweets from Karine Jean-Pierre on POTUS being briefed about the shooting at the elementary school in Texas. Flagging below:
Flagging the updated schedule in case anyone was unaware:
The President will deliver remarks on the horrific elementary school shooting in Uvalde, Texas. These remarks in the Roosevelt Room will be pooled press.
The White House has flagged for pool this tweet from Kate Bedingfield, which includes a photo of POTUS aboard speaking with Texas Gov. Greg Abbott by phone aboard Air Force One:
Kate Bedingfield on Twitter: "President Biden just spoke with Governor Abbott to offer any and all assistance he needs in the wake of the horrific shooting in Uvalde, TX."
On background from a White House Official:
The President has been briefed on the DPRK ballistic missile launches today and will continue to be briefed as information develops. Here's the latest statement by INDOPACOM: 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 7:16. POTUS, wearing a dark suit and blue tie, emerged moments later.
POTUS headed to pool with a noticeably slow gait to his walk, then informed reporters he'd make public remarks later.
"8:15 in the Roosevelt Room, I will be speaking." - POTUD
POTUS took no questions and entered the South Portico at 7:18.
From the White House:
POTUS will be speaking after 8:30 PM. Specific timing to come.
POTUS, wearing a navy suit and now a black tie, entered the Roosevelt Room with FLOTUS at 8:38. FLOTUS is wearing a black dress.
Pool will not provide quotes from POTUS remarks because the remarks will be live-streamed, but will provide any color as warranted.
POTUS ended remarks at 8:48. Reporters shouted questions, including inquiries about visiting Congress and specific actions a congress should take, but POTUS exited without answering.
Apologies for the typo in the pool report. It should have been what follows:
POTUS ended remarks at 8:48. Reporters shouted questions, including inquiries about visiting Texas and specific actions Congress should take, but POTUS exited without answering-
The White House called a travel-photo lid at 8:53.