Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi — I'll be your VP pooler for the day. Harris and Emhoff arrived at the tarmac at LAX at 10:31 am.
They boarded the plane at 10:32. Pooler asked a q about Jan 6 hearing but it was too loud. Harris signaled she would talk later.
Wheels up for SC shortly.
VP and Emhoff arrived at the Columbia Metropolitan Convention Center for the South Carolina Democratic Party Blue Palmetto Dinner at 6:37 pm.
(I believe her speech will be live-streamed. Trying to get a link to send in advance. If I don't have a link, will send quotes and otter after)
The drive from the airport was uneventful.
AF2 landed at 6:06 pm. Harris deplaned with Emhoff at 6:16 pm and immediately got in her car. Motorcade was rolling at 6:19 pm.
During the flight, Harris came back and talked to your pooler for 7ish minutes.
Harris took the stage at 7:55 pm to loud applause. She wrapped at 8:15 pm. Cyburn then got on stage with her to thank her for coming. They hugged. She got off stage at 8:17 pm.
Turns out there was not a livestream link, so here are some quick quotes (comments on Jan 6 in bold below), color and an otter link of her speech. Please check against transcript.
She opened with the time she spent in SC during the Dem primary shared a quick story about buying bags of collard greens from the state before leaving to cook thanksgiving dinner while she was running for president
She shared a message from POTUS: "South Carolina, we see you."
She ran through the admins accomplishments. Mention of Ketanji Brown Jackson's SCOTUS nomination and Michelle Childs nom got big applause.
"We heard you. We heard you and because of your efforts to get us elected in 2020, we were able to issue an executive order to increase accountability in policing including a ban on chokeholds for federal law enforcement."
We knew what you sent us to Washington to accomplish. And what did we do? Well, hundreds of millions of Americans got vaccinated. What did we do? Record job creation, record declining unemployment, record increases in labor participation and an historic rate of small business creation.
"We have made progress..we know people are still hurting. There is no question. We still face serious challenges. As we saw today, inflation is still too high. We are seeing higher prices at the store from supply chains that slowed down dramatically during the pandemic and higher prices at the gas pump because of Putin's war in Ukraine. Families across South Carolina and the nation are feeling the pinch."
"friends, I believe when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for."
"As Democrats, we fight for a future where working families can get ahead and stay ahead where every child can reach their God given potential and where every community is safe and healthy. We fight for a future where all people can live without fear. Because no 86 year old grandmother should be afraid to go to the grocery store. No 41 year old pastor should worry about welcoming a stranger to Bible study. No nine year old child should fear for her safety at school. And no 18 year old should be able to buy a weapon of war."
That last line about guns got a loud applause with many getting up on their feet.
"These are the values Democrats stand for. And let's be clear. And so much of this is what the Republican Party stands against… The Republican Party wants to criminalize and punish women and their doctors for making healthcare decisions."
"Republican leaders has shown that they have no interest in making progress on the issues that matter most to the American people."
"
Harris was introduced by Jaleel Johnson, who met Harris in 2019 and has worked in SC politics.
Also, per WH, upon arrival the Vice President met w/ officials below.
- House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (D-SC-06)
- Governor Dick Riley, former Governor of South Carolina (D) and former U.S. Secretary of Education
- Chair Trav Robertson, South Carolina Democratic Party
VP motorcade was rolling at 8:20 pm. Motorcade arrived at the airport at 8:39 pm.
At 8:40 pm, Harris took some photos with advance volunteers in front of AF2. She boarded at 8:41 with Emhoff, waved at the top and didn't come over to chat.
Wheels up for JBA shortly.
(Also was walking and typing so spelled Clyburn's name wrong in previous report)
AF2 landed at JBA at 9:58 pm.
Harris deplaned with Emhoff at 10:06 pm. She shook hands with Maj. Guy Evertson, Director Flight Line Protocol, C-32A Pilot, and Ssgt Cindy Argueta, Protocol Specialist, at the bottom of the stairs.
She didn't stop to chat with pool.
She got in M2 at 10:08 pm and was wheels up at 10:14 pm.
Have a good Friday night!