Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. I'll be your out of town pooler today. President Biden is traveling to Los Angeles for the Ninth Summit of the Americas where he will deliver remarks during the inaugural ceremony and greet heads of delegations attending the week's events. The president is also taping an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel that will air later this evening.
Pool has been swept at JBA and is holding under the wing as we await POTUS' arrival.
For reference, today's public travel schedule:
In the morning, the President will travel to Los Angeles, California to host the Ninth Summit of the Americas. The Summit will bring together governments from across our hemisphere to focus on pressing challenges, including economic prosperity, climate change, the migration crisis, and the COVID-19 pandemic. The departure from the South Lawn will be open press. The departure from Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival at Los Angeles International Airport will be open press.
In the afternoon, the President will tape an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! This event at the El Capitan Entertainment Centre in Los Angeles, California will be closed press and the out-of-town pool will accompany.
After, the President will greet with heads of delegations at the Ninth Summit of the Americas. This event at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, California will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Then, the President and the First Lady will participate in the inaugural ceremony of the Ninth Summit of the Americas. The President will deliver remarks. These remarks at the Microsoft Theater will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Marine One touched down at 11:58 am.
POTUS emerged at 12:02 pm and walked over to reporters to give a statement on last night's election results and what this says about crime and gun violence. He took no questions and boarded at 12:03 pm.
Please check against transcript.
"The voters sent a clear message last night. Both parties have to step up and do something about crime as well as gun violence."
He called on states and localities to spend billions of dollars allocated "to hire police officers and reform the police departments. Very few have done it. In addition to that, I sent Congress a request for $300 million in this year's budget to deal with hiring costs."
He boarded Air Force One at 12:03 pm.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle during the flight. The stream will air on the White House site.
Flight time is 4h45 with an anticipated local arrival time of 1:30 pm.
We will be wheels up shortly.
From the White House:
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President will be greeted by:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Los Angeles, California:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Neera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the President
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling and Advance
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
Catherine Tobin, Special Assistant to the President & Sr Director for Transborder Security
Lee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
Charlie Fromstein, Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Air Force One touched down at Los Angeles International Airport at 1:36 pm local time.
President Biden exited at 1:50 pm and was greeted on the tarmac by Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and California Governor Gavin Newsom and the governor's children.
Biden's granddaughter Naomi and her fiancé Peter Neal followed the president out of AF1 and joined the group. They spent several minutes chatting with Garcetti while Biden placed his arms around Newsom's children.
Garcetti gave Biden a shoulder pat at one point.
Biden boarded Marine One at 1:56 pm with Naomi Biden and Peter Neal behind him.
Pool is wheels up to Dodger Stadium in an Osprey momentarily.
The White House shares the following:
Upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport, the President will be greeted planeside by:
Gavin Newsom, Governor of California
Dutch William Siebel Newsom (age 6)
Hunter Siebel Newsom (age 10)
Montana Tessa Siebel Newsom (age 11)
Brooklynn Siebel Newsom (age 8)
Eric Garcetti, Mayor of Los Angeles
During the flight, press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan came back to gaggle for about 40 mins.
Some highlights:
On meeting with Brazilian President Bolsonaro who has made comments casting doubt on the results of his reelection and on President Biden's election,
Sullivan said that there were "no topics off limits in any bilateral the president does including with President Bolsonaro.
Climate "will be an important topic of conversation and we believe it could be an area of progress in the U.S.-Brazil relationship."
On U.S. investments in Latin America comparing to China's open checkbook:
"US has never seen its comparative advantage as leveraging huge numbers of state dollars; rather leveraging all tools available to us."
He said Biden will make financial commitment to IDB invest, the private sector financing arm of the InterAmerican Development Bank, to unlock financing for infrastructure, clean energy, digital
"When you tally … the practical impact of what the summit deliverables from the U.S. will mean for the hemisphere, it is significantly more impactful on the actual lives and livelihoods of people of this region than the kinds of extractive projects that China has been invested in."
On labor pathways announcement:
Sullivan said administration is "not going to pretend like what we announced today is going to solve the whole of the systematic challenge that we have but it will help us make progress."
Asked about President Biden forgoing a press conference: "I dont see the formal press conference issue as a particular litmus test."
Jean-Pierre was asked about Biden's pre-departure statement:
"Is the president giving into right wing narrative about rampant crime that needs to be met with severe punishment, and what does it say about prospect for criminal justice reform that advocate of progressive prosecutions was tossed out?"
Jean-Pierre reiterated Biden's statement that "voters last night delivered a clear message: it's time for both parties to get more serious about fighting crime and gun violence."
"He has never supported Defund the Police. He's been clear about that."
Jean-Pierre said Biden signed an executive order on police reform after taking office and said "criminal justice reform is something that he has supported from the moment that legislators on the Hill started talking about coming together trying to have something to move forward with."
"And again, he signed an executive order on police reform on the measures that we can do from the executive, from the federal side of things, from the White House. Clearly he hasn't given up on that."
Sullivan spoke for roughly 35 mins and Jean-Pierre for about 10 mins. There were no other visitors to the press cabin.
AF1 was wheels up from Andrews at 12:14 pm.
Marine One was at the Dodger Stadium landing zone when the pool arrived separately at 2:14 pm.
President Biden exited M1 at 2:17 pm and held out his hand for Naomi as she stepped onto the tarmac. He entered the Beast at 2:18 pm.
Motorcade is rolling to El Capitan Entertainment Centre at 2:20 pm for the president's Jimmy Kimmel taping. It's a 15 min drive.
Note that the White House sent a readout for President Biden's call with Juan Guaido of Venezuela about 20 minutes ago.
Motorcade arrived at the El Capitan Entertainment Centre at 2:36 pm for President Biden's Jimmy Kimmel taping.
Hundreds of people lined the streets as we approached the venue, cellphones aloft. Pool spotted someone dressed as Spider-Man in the crowd.
Pool was quickly escorted through a back lot to an indoor holding area and did not see the president's arrival.
A reminder that the taping is embargoed until the show airs later this evening.
Pool was ushered out of the Jimmy Kimmel taping hold area at 3:28 pm and did not see President Biden leave.
We joined the motorcade at 3:46 pm and are now rolling to the Microsoft Theater for the president's first Summit of the Americas events.
Motorcade arrived at the Microsoft Theater at 4:02 pm. Pool did not see POTUS enter. We are now headed to the leader and delegation greeting.
Motorcade passed the Capitol Records Building en route, as well as a few Trump supporters waving a lone TRUMP 2024 flag.
Note that poolers were able to watch the Jimmy Kimmel taping earlier. I will provide a few highlights as soon as the embargo lifts.
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden are greeting the leaders and representatives of countries in attendance for the Summit. I'm told that the summit television feed is airing the greetings live.
First out was Guatemala's Foreign Affairs Minister.
After breaking for about ten minutes, President Biden resumed greeting leaders and delegation heads at 4:33 pm, starting with Uruguay's Foreign Affairs Minister.
The president warmly greeted the Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago, stroking his counterpart's suit collar.
Biden gave Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau a broad smile, embracing him with his arm around Trudeau's shoulder.
Jill Biden gave the President of Ecuador a peck on the cheek. The First Lady traveled to the country last month, her first stop on a six-day tour.
The White House shares the full list of delegation greetings:
The President and the First Lady will greet the following Heads of Delegations and their Spouses:
At 5:25pm, the Summit of the Americas inaugural ceremony started with a brief video followed by introductory remarks from Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti and California Governor Gavin Newsom.
The camera briefly panned to President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden seated in the audience.
Vice President Kamala Harris is about to speak after being introduced by Newsom.
View the White House stream: 
At one point during the greetings earlier, POTUS and First Lady Jill Biden danced together. Copooler Ken Thomas captured the moment: 
President Biden started speaking at 6pm and was heckled almost immediately by two people in the audience. Pool could not make out what the protestors said.
As a reminder, the White House is streaming this live: 
The inaugural ceremony ended at 6:40 pm. Pool is holding as President Biden participates in a photo line.
Kyle Mazza shares a video of the hecklers during the president's remarks: 
Pool loaded into vans at 7:16pm and did not lay eyes on President Biden.
Motorcade was rolling to the RON at 7:22 pm
Pool van unloaded at 7:26 pm at the RON. We did not see President Biden arrive. The White House called a lid at 7:32 pm.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from the White House.
President Biden's South Lawn departure, originally scheduled for 11:15, has been delayed. We don't yet have an updated time.
The pool has gathered for President Biden's South Lawn departure.
President Biden exited the Oval Office at 11:44. He did not take questions and walked straight to Marine One, which was wheels up at 11:49.