Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from sunny Los Angeles where the weather is absolutely beautiful.
Your pooler has been tested and earned a wrist band by testing negative.
It's a jam packed busy day for POTUS here in the City of Angels and there are no changes so far to his schedule.
Here's a quick rundown of everything on POTUS's scheduled for today.
 
 
 
The Pool van is rolling at 10:01 towards Port of Los Angeles, where POTUS will give a speech on the economy.
There is a change of plans. We are motorcading to the port instead of helicoptering in because of an inclement weather call. It's very cloudy in LA this morning.
POTUS speech will broadcast on White House live. You can watch it here.
Since it's being broadcast you're on your own for quotes. Your pooler will be provide color and other interesting tidbits.
The pool arrived at the Port of Los Angeles at 10:31.
Your pooler noticed traffic backups at various on ramps for the freeway as the motorcade zipped down the 110.
Closer to the port, a handful of observers stood on the sidewalks, waving and filming the motorcade as it passed by.
Your pooler did not see POTUS ahead of departure or arrival.
POTUS will be delivering his remarks aboard the USS Iowa, a battleship commissioned in 1943 and has severed in World War II, Korea and Cold War.
It is now decommissioned and serves a museum at the Port of Los Angeles.
Per White House
Sal DiCostanzo
David Ross, Jr.
Jaime Hipsher
Sal DiCostanzo, International Longshore and Warehouse Union Member, Local 13
The President
POTUS began speaking at 10:51.
POTUS began talking about last night's Jan. 6 hearings.
He called Jan. 6 "one of the darkest chapters in our nation's history" and "brutal attack on law enforcement."
"It's important to American people understand what truly happened. And to understand that the same forces that led January 6 to remain at work today," he said.
As always check quotes against official transcript.
Per White House, here are the attendees for today's speech on the economy at the Port of Los Angeles.
Marty Walsh, Secretary of Labor
Alex Padilla, U.S. Senator (CA)
Eric Garcetti, Mayor of Los Angeles
Robert Garcia, Mayor of Long Beach
Alan Lowenthal, U.S. Congressman (CA-47)
Nanette Barragan, U.S. Congresswoman (CA-42)
John Garamendi, U.S. Congressman (CA-03)
Eugene "Gene" Seroka, Executive Director, Port of Los Angeles
Mario Cordero, Executive Director, Port of Long Beach
Additional invited guests including elected officials, local labor representatives, and officials from the Port of Los Angeles and Port of Long Beach
The President concluded his remarks at 11:10.
He took one question about whether he would go after Exxon's profits.
He said there are more than "9,000 permits for drilling," adding that the oil companies "are not drilling."
"Why don't they drill more? Because they make more money not producing oil. Prices go up on the one hand. No. 2 the reason they are not drilling is they are buying back their own stock, should be taxed quite frankly. Buying back their own stock and not making new investments."
Oil companies "have more money than God," POTUS said.
The pool is holding aboard the USS Iowa. POTUS is not in sight.
The pool van is rolling at 11:50 to our next location, the Los Angeles convention center, where POTUS and other leaders attending the Summit of Americas will issue a migration declaration.
The vessel announcer said "United States is departing," indicating POTUS disembarked.
Your pooler did not see POTUS as he disembarked the ship or as entered into his vehicle.
Per White House
Today, at the Port of Los Angeles, President Biden met with Port of Los Angeles Executive Director Gene Seroka and Port of Long Beach Executive Director Mario Cordero.
The President knows that one of the key ways to fight inflation is by lowering the cost of moving goods through supply chains, which is why the Administration's Supply Chains Disruptions Task Force has focused on decongesting the nation's busiest ports due to disruptions caused by the pandemic. Today there are about 40% fewer containers clogging the docks for long periods than last November.
The pool as arrived at the LA Convention Center at 12:18.
A member of the pool spotted a construction worker on an exit saluting the motorcade as it passed by.
The last pool report should have been numbered #12.
The next one will be numbered #13.
Your pooler apologizes for the error.
The pool is holding inside the convention center. Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the convention center.
And the Pool Reports are back to the correct numbering.
The pool began moving at 12:49 to migration event.
Two minute warning to Migration Declaration remarks
The event is being live streamed, but your pooler will keep an eye out for anything worth noting
POTUS entered the room at 1:43 and began speaking at 1:44.
The event ended at 1:58
It concluded with remarks by Ecuadorian President Guillermo Lasso,
It concluded with the family photo of leaders attending the Summit of Americas. POTUS smiled as he pointed towards the camera.
Remarks to come.
Travel pool is back on the move.
The photo taken at the end of the Migration Declaration was NOT the family photo, but rather the photo of all the leaders at the event.
The pool has now moved into a separate room for the family photo.
The family photo ended at 2:15 POTUS responded to two questions shouted by a reporter.
Q1: Are you confident the summit went well?
"I'm always confident," POTUS said
Q2: How did your talks with world leaders go?
"You'll have to ask them. Let's just take the picture."
POTUS chatted with a few world leaders as they exited the stage. It was a group of leaders walking with POTUS so it was hard to see which leaders he was addressing.
Pool was ushered until working luncheon at 2:27.
A grey-haired, bearded man who the pool was unable to identity spoke to POTUS about the value of a working lunch.
Your pooler (and the rest of the pool) are working to identity him. He was the only one there without a plaquard.
Touting the value of a working lunch he said. It gives the "benefit of sharing thoughts and ideas."
He said it would give the leaders a chance to have "an open conversation" without staff present.
The introducer who spoke at the luncheon was former U.S. Sen. Chris Dodd, who is serving as President Biden's special advisor to the Summit of Americas.
He is now sporting a beard, which makes him look different than he did when he was in the Senate.
The last pool report was labeled #21, when it should have been #22. The next one will be #23, which corrects the numbers.
From a senior administration official on the migration declaration
"From the beginning we really wanted this to be very ambitious, forward learning, something that would truly have an impact. And so we wanted to make sure countries that signed on were really committed to this and we would welcome any other countries that wanted to join, but we first engaged countries that we know have been truly impacted by these historic flows"
"And I think what we found is that we were starting to build consensus. I think more and more countries started to see that oh you know this could actually be in their benefit to join this idea of responsibility sharing, all the countries coming together."
"The first pillar that — you've now seen the text — really focus on stabilizing, stability and supporting countries on the front lines that have really truly been impacted and hosting large refugee and migrant populations. I think a kind of light bulb has gone off that, ok, we signed on to this, we will potentially, you know, receive more support from the international community. So I think that is why we saw a sort of pile on at the end, a recognition that this is a good thing."
"So we have have been really pleased"
More quotes to come
Attributed to a senior administrator official on migration declaration.
" We're putting a lot of skin in the game, some of it is an expansion of things that we're already doing to support countries and, you know, we are the biggest donor in the Western Hemisphere when it comes to refugee and migration response.."
" We announced an additional 300 million today in in that funding from the State Department and USAID ID one of the other concrete deliverables that we made, and this is new is our interest in working with the World Bank, the Inter American Development Bank, to provide more support to these middle income countries that have been most impacted with the with this, concessional financing, going to not just the refugee and migrant populations."
"One area that I think is we need to really focus on and I know the President feels this way too is our some of our economies are recovering and we have jobs that we can fill. And we know that unemployment is a major driver of migration, how can we do more to match the workers with the jobs and so I think it's really interesting to see Mexico step forward and say that they're going to expand and set up new temporary worker programs. That's that's really exciting. I think we've been seeing Mexico increasingly be the leader in the region on these issues."
" Honestly, I think there's even beyond what you saw in the back sheet. There's opportunities for mobility with education opportunities, you know, I think there's so many different kinds of legal migration pathways that we need to turn on. Some of them even just sort of the traditional immigrant visa processing, a lot of that was turned off worldwide during COVID So and I think when there's a lack of opportunities for people to migrate legally, that's when you see an increase in irregular migration."
Pool is rolling at 4:07. We are on our way to the first of two DNC fundraisers on POTUS's schedule tonight.
Your pooler did not spot POTUS leaving the convention center.
The pool van arrived at fundraiser at 4:31. It is at a private residence in a very tony neighborhood.
We are in the Brentwood section of LA.
Your pooler did not see POTUS exit the vehicle it go into residence.
Along the way, many drivers got out of their cars held up on blocked freeway on ramps to take photos and videos of the motorcade, cheering and waving. Some even stood on concrete barriers separating the highway and exit ramps.
One woman flashed impassioned middle fingers, using both her hands to let the motorcade know how she feels.