Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington.
The motorcade left Biden's residence at 11:33 AM and we are now rolling to DANG.
The motorcade reached DANG at 11:41 AM.
The president exited his car and boarded Marine One at 11:43.
The pool was too far away for shouted questions and we have now boarded the Osprey.
We will be taking off shortly.
Handing off to in-town pool.
It has been a pleasure serving as your pooler. Special thanks to copooler Nikki Schwab of Daily Mail for her help.
Have a great Monday you all!
Passing along from the WH
Travelling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Pool gathering at 12:30 for Marine One arrival on South Lawn.
Marine One set down on the South Lawn at 12:42. The president exited at 12:44 and strode across the lawn, aviators in place, with nary a glance toward the pool. Questions were shouted asking him if he was running for a second term and if he was satisfied with the gun compromise. No acknowledgement. At 12:46, he entered the Oval Office.
We have a lunch lid until 1:45.
Gathering -- on schedule -- for the East Room event where the President will sign into law the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act.
The bill, sponsored in the House by Rep. Grace Meng and in the Senate by Hawaii Sen.Mazie Hirono, passed the House on April 26 and the Senate on May 19. It sets up an eight-person commission to study the cost of the potential collection, whether it should be part of the Smithsonian and how best to engage Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the study.
The event is open press to those credentialed and will be streamed. So no pooling the remarks.
From the White House:
Joining the President, Vice President and the Second Gentleman for the signing of H.R. 3525, "Commission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act":
Speaking Program:
The president entered the East Room alongside the Vice President to the tune of Hail to the Chief at 1:23. The Vice president spoke first for three minutes, recalling her mother coming to this country at age 19 from India. She stressed that a museum must tell both the good and the bad of the story. That is also American history and we must teach it as it actually happened so we can learn from it, she said.
The president started speaking at 1:28. He said he was honored to sign the bill, calling it "long overdue." He stressed the diversity of the community and said "it's about time" for a museum. He also chided those "who seek to white wash our history" and said a museum has to include the full story. "The battle for the soul of America continues," he said.
At 1:36, he invited Speaker Pelosi and members of the caucus to the stage to join him for the actual signing. When finished, he chatted with the speaker for a while as God Bless America played. He departed the East Room at 1:42, ignoring shouted questions about guns.
The pool report was in Condon Time which is not recognized outside of Ireland.
The president entered the room AT 2:23 and departed at 2:42, not 1:23 and 1:42 as noted.
Two minute warning for Press briefing at 3:39 p.m.
A lid was declared at 5:10 p.m.