No pool reports today. Below is background on the Vice President's commencement address to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy graduating Cadets
Today, Vice President Harris will deliver a commencement speech at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The Vice President will discuss how she sees the world, the work of the Coast Guard, and the role of the Cadets in each.
On foreign policy, the Vice President will discuss the Administration's priority of upholding and strengthening the international rules-based order, and she will discuss how the Cadets will contribute to this work through their Coast Guard service. She will describe the state of the world that Cadets are entering, where long-standing rules and norms are under question, including in Ukraine, but also more broadly around the world. She will underscore that upholding the international rules-based order is how we ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of the United States and how we preserve stability around in the world—and that the Coast Guard plays a vital role in these efforts. She will also discuss her engagements with foreign leaders and their discussions on the U.S. Coast Guard, noting that they are a highly-sought after partner who help strengthen our alliances and partnerships.
On domestic policy, the Vice President will discuss how the work of the Coast Guard is also contributing to our strength at home. She will discuss how their work supports American jobs and livelihoods, ensures the resilience of our supply chains, and contributes to our efforts on climate, and cybersecurity, among other areas.
The world you graduate into is unsettled. It is a world where long-established principles now rest on shaky ground. Where the rule of law is strained. Where rules and norms are under question.
We see this in Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine where fundamental principles are under threat. Principles grounded in the belief: that sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations must be respected; the belief that all people have a right to choose their own leaders; and that borders must not be changed by force.
For a time, it seemed as though these rules and norms would prevail. Now, they are being called into question.
And the challenges we face are broader than Russia. Around the world, we see additional attempts to undermine the rules-based order: Nations that threaten the freedom of the seas; criminal gangs and traffickers who skirt the rule of law, and fuel corruption and violence; those that manipulate and undermine the foundations of international commerce.
When I think about the security of the United States and the world, I am clear-eyed: One of our defining missions is to strengthen the international rules-based order. To defend it. To promote it. And to build on it.
Over time, this order has been tried. This order has been tested. And far too often, this order has been taken for granted. Frankly, sometimes we forget how rare it is in human history to have a period of relative peace and stability among nations.
We must remember: Upholding a system of laws, institutions and common understandings--this is how we ensure the safety, security, and prosperity of the United States, and this is how we preserve stability in the world.
Cadets, this is where you come in. In addition to the work you will do at home, you will serve a vital role in advancing our nation's interests abroad.
The issue of upholding and strengthening the international rules-based order is a topic the Vice President has spoken on frequently:
The Vice President has engaged foreign counterparts on issues involving the Coast Guard: