In accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR § 390.23, the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT), Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's (FMCSA) hereby declares that an emergency exists that warrants issuance of a Regional Emergency Declaration for all four FMCSA regional service centers, and an exemption from certain regulatory requirements in Part 395 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety (FMCSRs), except as otherwise restricted in this Emergency Declaration. Such emergency is in response to product recall and unplanned closure of a key manufacturing facility of baby formula, an essential supply. On May 18, 2022, the President of the United States invoked the Defense Production Act to increase baby formula production and requiring suppliers to direct ingredients to baby formula manufacturers as a priority. This Emergency Declaration addresses nationwide emergency conditions creating a need for immediate transportation of baby formula, ingredients for the production of baby formula including but not limited to whey, casein, corn syrup and hydrolyzed protein, and containers and packaging for baby formula, and provides necessary relief.
By execution of this Emergency Declaration, motor carriers and drivers providing direct assistance to the emergency in direct support of relief efforts related to the emergency as set out in this declaration are granted relief from 49 CFR § 395.3, maximum driving time for property-carrying vehicles, subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein. Direct assistance does not include routine commercial deliveries, including mixed loads with a nominal quantity of qualifying emergency relief added to obtain the benefits of this emergency declaration. To be eligible for relief from 49 CFR § 395.3, the transportation must incident to the immediate restoration of baby formula supplies.
By execution of this Emergency Declaration No. 2022-005, motor carriers and drivers providing direct assistance to the nationwide emergency are granted emergency relief from 49 CFR § 395.3, maximum driving time for property-carrying vehicles, subject to the following restrictions and conditions:
In accordance with 49 CFR § 390.23, this Emergency Declaration is effective immediately and shall remain in effect until the end of the emergency (
) or until 11:59 P.M. (ET), June 30, 2022, whichever is earlier. FMCSA intends to continually review the status of this Emergency Declaration and may take action to extend, modify or terminate the Emergency Declaration if conditions warrant.