Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello everyone,
Zolan Kanno-Youngs here reporting for pool duty, along with POLITICO's Alex Thompson in the WHCA seat. It's 72 degrees and sunny in Seoul this Sunday morning.
The White House sends this along: 
Pool is currently holding at the Hyatt. Here's the schedule for today.
Hey there,
We’ve got a two minute warning for the president’s remarks with the chairman of the Hyundai Motor Group at the Grand Hyatt hotel Seoul. Pool is positioned. Remarks are streamed on WH live.
President Biden entered the waterfall garden at the Grand Hyatt Seoul adjacent to a pool at about 11:14 am and spoke for roughly 14 minutes for his remarks with the chairman of the Hyundai Motor Group, Euisun Chung.
Biden celebrated Hyundai's recent announcement of an investment of $5.5 billion in the state of Georgia. "We're all committed to making it happen," Biden said. "Electric vehicles are good for our climate goals but also good for jobs and good for business."
CNN's Kaitlan Collins asked Biden if he was concerned about a potential nuclear test from North Korea. "We are prepared for anything North Korea does," Biden said. "I'm not concerned if that's what your asking," Biden said.
Collins then asked if Biden had a message for Kim Jong-un. "Hello," Biden said. After a couple seconds, the president followed up with "period."
At 11:44 am, pool is rolling to Dragon Hill lodge. The president is scheduled to greet embassy staffers. Your pooler could not spot POTUS entering the motorcade.
After an uneventful ride we arrived at the embassy at 11:53 am. Pool could not spot POTUS entering. We’re holding in the vans as he meets with embassy staffers.
At 12:52, pool is rolling to Yongsan Landing Zone, where we will board helicopters to Osan Air Base. Pooler could not see POTUS entering the motorcade.
At roughly 1:05 PM, Marine One departed for Osan Air Base.
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Osan Air Base:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marine One landed at roughly 1:20 PM. The White House has advised your pooler there is bad cell service inside the Air Operations Center so sending along the following background now.
—>
The President will visit with military personnel stationed at the Osan Air Base. The President will visit the Combat Operations Floor and receive an overview of operations at the base, and greet members of the military and their family at the bowling alley.
Upon arrival at the Air Operations Center at Osan Air Base, the President will be greeted by:
His Excellency Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of Korea
General Paul J. LaCamera, U.S. Army, Commander, U.S. Forces Korea
Lieutenant General Sung Chun Choi, Commander, Air Force Operations Command, Republic of Korea Air Force
Osan Air Base is one of the primary U.S. Air Force facilities in the Republic of Korea (ROK) and is home to 5,600 active duty U.S. military, 1,100 Department of Defense civilians, 2,300 dependents, and 3,500 ROK Air Force. The 51st Fighter Wing is headquartered at Osan Air Base and is equipped with 21 F-16 Fighting Falcons and 21 A-10 Warthogs.
President Biden and President Yoon will participate in a tour of the Combat Operations Floor.
Tour guides:
The 607th Air Operations Center (AOC), Combat Operations Division (COD) is in charge of monitoring and executing the Air Tasking Order (ATO). The division is split into two teams, offensive and defensive. The offensive team is in charge of controlling combat air assets against deliberate and dynamic targets that are approved by the Combined Forces Air Component Commander. The defensive team is charged with protecting the Defended and Critical Asset List, theater missile defense, as well as controlling defensive counter air missions throughout the Korean Theater of Operations.
Participants:
The Air Force utilizes multi-role aircraft, bombers, and ISR assets to find, fix, track, target, engage, and assess (F2T2EA) targets of opportunity or emerging threats that were identified too late to be included into the deliberate targeting cycle. These targets may potentially be of critical or high value importance within a fleeting window to strike and may be categorized as Time Sensitive Targets.
The 3rd Battlefield Coordination Detachment (3BCD) is the liaison between the 607th AOC and the Ground Component Command (GCC). Certain dynamic targets may have restrictions that prevent Air Component Command assets to strike. The 3BCD, with coordination from COD in order to synchronize airspace deconfliction, can provide surface to surface fires to service these targets. In addition, they may request air effects from COD to strike ground priority targets.
Participants:
Upon departure from the Air Operations Center at Osan Air Base, the President will bid farewell to:
The President will also greet with:
Upon arrival at MIG Alley Bowling Center, the President will be greeted by:
At roughly 1:32 PM, pool was loaded into vans at the Osan Air Base. Pool was led to the back aisles of the combat operations floor. Inside the room were rows of Korean and American troops sitting at computers showing word documents and aerial surveillance footage.
Large screens at the front of the operations floor showed black and white aerial surveillance footage, maps and what appeared to be a spreadsheet of data. The screen in the middle displayed Korean and American flags.
President Biden and President Yoon entered at 1:52 PM. One serviceman began describing the functions of the operations center although most of his comments were hard to hear.
At one point, the president asked a question but it was inaudible.
"The best thing I can do to describe what we do here is we convert your words into action," the military official told Biden.
The president then moved to the left of the room to give remarks. He opened with a joke.
"First of all I want to say thank you and I wish you'd work on your biceps more," he said to the serviceman sitting just in front of him. He noted the airman's bicep was larger than his thigh. He reminded the serviceman he used to be an athlete.
"Our alliance is formed through shared sacrifices of the Korean War and several decades later thanks to you the Republic of Korea is a strong thriving democracy," Biden said.
POTUS at one point slowed down to allow his translator to catch up.
"All the American troops that are here and your families, thank you for what you do for our country and our allies," he said.
As he paused to allow the translator to interpret, Biden winked at the airmen and airwomen. "And to the Korean forces thank you as well."
"I won't attempt Korean but… We go together," Biden said, reciting the mantra of the servicemen at the military site. "And by the way, we go together," Biden said, extending his hand to Yoon.
Yoon continued clapping, not initially realizing Biden's hand. The president kept his hand extended. They then shook hands.
Yoon then spoke, saying he was grateful for "the airmen and airwoman." He also mentioned the threat of North Korea but he said he was reassured by the support of the United States.
"The importance of your role and responsibility to defend this peninsula," Yoon said. "I feel reassured seeing you today as the center of our defense."
Pool was rushed out at 2:10 PM. We arrived at the bowling alley on the airbase at 2:28. More TK
We're rolling to bowling at 2:25z
athe president made his first stop of the air base tour — the Air Operations Center. (See background from last pool report).
Upon arrival at the Air Operations Center at Osan Air Base, the President will be greeted by:
His Excellency Yoon Suk Yeol, President of the Republic of Korea
General Paul J. LaCamera, U.S. Army, Commander, U.S. Forces Korea
Lieutenant General Sung Chun Choi, Commander, Air Force Operations Command, Republic of Korea Air Force
Osan Air Base is one of the primary U.S. Air Force facilities in the Republic of Korea (ROK) and is home to 5,600 active duty U.S. military, 1,100 Department of Defense civilians, 2,300 dependents, and 3,500 ROK Air Force. The 51st Fighter Wing is headquartered at Osan Air Base and is equipped with 21 F-16 Fighting Falcons and 21 A-10 Warthogs.
President Biden and President Yoon will participate in a tour of the Combat Operations Floor.
Tour guides:
The 607th Air Operations Center (AOC), Combat Operations Division (COD) is in charge of monitoring and executing the Air Tasking Order (ATO). The division is split into two teams, offensive and defensive. The offensive team is in charge of controlling combat air assets against deliberate and dynamic targets that are approved by the Combined Forces Air Component Commander. The defensive team is charged with protecting the Defended and Critical Asset List, theater missile defense, as well as controlling defensive counter air missions throughout the Korean Theater of Operations.
Participants:
Shortly after 2:30 President Biden entered a cafeteria in the bowling alley to meet mostly uniformed troops and some family members. Cafeteria included posters of Johnny cash and Elvis. No one was masked.
Biden walked in wearing a black cap. One White House official said it was labeled US-PK and a gift from commander of the base.
Biden went straight for the ice cream and picked up a small cup of chocolate chip ice cream. There was a banner behind the ice cream stand reading, "especially for you."
Pool asked to get closer and was told "no, sorry."
Biden went straight to the tables with children. He spent several seconds writing a note to one girl. As he visited servicemen he took his cap off. He then went back for a second serving of ice cream, this time getting vanilla and chocolate, according to the ice cream server.
He then took a selfie with a number of children. Biden multitasked talking with the young family members with taking bites of ice cream.
He went to sit at another table and could be heard asking some of the children their ages. "Are you kidding me?" he replied to one. Another girl raised her hand to show she was five.
He padded the shoulder of another woman at the table and said something inaudible. Pool was rushed out at 2:45 PM to the bowling alley. One pooler asked a White House official to stay in the cafeteria but was denied. At 2:55, Biden entered the bowling alley. The pool was positioned to the side of the bowling lane on the far left. A group of children bowling did not appear to notice the president about 15 feet behind them taking pictures with troops. His black cap was back. Avicii was playing.
Biden then walked to the lane in front of us and posed for photographs with the children. "Happy," by Pharrell played.
Pooler could hear the president say "thanks, man," to one boy after a group photograph. At 3:07 PM, pool was rushed out and led to the vans. Your pooler got a glimpse of POTUS turning his back to apparently leave as we exited.
Pool could not see POTUS entering the motorcade. We're rolling to Air Force One at 3:18 PM. (Sorry for the loose notes at the bottom of the last pool report).
And special thanks to Alex Thompson for hustling to get details, including the flavor of the president's ice cream.
Before boarding Air Force one biden was asked about monkeypox.
"They haven't told me the level of exposure yet but it is something that everybody should be concerned about," Biden said "we're working on it hard to figure out what we do and what vaccine if any might be available for it. It is a concern in that if it were to spread it would be consequential. That's all they told me."
Biden said he's looking forward to seeing the winner of the Australia election and "quad matters." He pumped his fist. He also said goodbye to advance staff and posed for a photo.
We're off to Tokyo.
Upon departure from the Air Operations Center at Osan Air Base, the President will bid farewell to:
The President will also greet with:
Apologies. Your pooler meant to write monkeypox not "monkey paws" in the last pool report. I blame autocorrect but you can blame me.
AF1 landed at 5:04 PM. While in the air national security adviser Jake Sullivan gaggled. You can find the audio at White House live.
He was asked about on IPEF, Taiwan, Biden meeting with Modi and human rights abuses in India. He also said Biden would meet with the newly elected prime minister of Australia. He was asked about the US approach to North Korea and John Kirby's new role.
He said US intelligence still says North Korea could do a nuclear or missile test.
He was asked about the economic framework for this region would benefit Americans feeling the pain of inflation.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre also summarized the latest efforts on the baby formula shortage (she could not give a timeline on when parents can readily get baby formula). She was also asked about the administration not seeking a stay on title 42.
Also here's some background from the Hyundai announcement earlier:
The President's commitment to the electrification of the transportation sector, particularly on-road vehicles, has spurred a renaissance in the American auto industry, and his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) is now supercharging America's efforts to lead the electric future with historic investments in charging infrastructure, battery manufacturing, and clean transit. Together, the President's catalyzing actions include:
To date, the President's climate leadership has spurred tens of billions in private investments across the EV supply chain, including:
Chairman Chung will announce Hyundai's $5.7 billion investment in a new EV manufacturing plant in Savannah, Georgia. This plant will produce electric vehicles across all three of its major vehicle divisions – Hyundai, Kia, and Genesis – and will include on-site battery production. In total, this plant is expected to employ 8,000 people and construction is expected to begin in January 2023 – with the first vehicle produced at the plant in January of 2026.
Last month, Hyundai Motor Group announced an investment of $7.4 billion in the United States by 2025. Hyundai and Kia will both build American-made battery electric vehicles and Hyundai Motor Company's U.S. facility is slated to begin EV production in 2022. HMG will continue to work with the U.S. Department of Energy to advance the hydrogen ecosystem in the United States.
Biden stepped down the stairs of AF1 at 5:17 PM. (See below for greeters). Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo trailed the president down the stairs of Air Force One.
Biden shook hands with each of the greeters. He then pointed to an aide, who brought him a challenge coin to give to a member of the military. Rahm Emanuel then walked over to POTUS for another brief conversation, at one point squeezing his arm. Biden boarded marine one at 5:22 PM.
We ascended at roughly 5:30 PM.
Upon arrival at Yokota Air Base, the President will be greeted by:
H.E. Hayashi Yoshimasa, Minister of Foreign Affairs for Japan
T.H. Rahm Emanuel, U.S. Ambassador to Japan
Ms. Amy Rule, Ambassador Emanuel's spouse
Lt. Gen. Ricky Rupp, Commander, United States Forces, Japan, and Commander, Fifth Air Force, Pacific Air Forces, Yokota Air Base, Japan
Ms. Charlotte Rupp, Lt. Gen. Rupp's spouse
CMSgt Wendell Snider, Command Senior Enlisted Leader, United States Forces Japan
Sergio "Don" Misa, Deputy Director of Protocol
Marine One landed at the Hardy Barracks Landing Zone at 5:47 PM.
POTUS entered the beast at 5:52 PM. We’re off to RON.
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 6:07 PM. Pool is holding at the tail end of the motorcade, which is currently in front of the Okura hotel.
The president is across the street in a closed press event at the Chief of Mission Residence, where he will take part in a room dedication for Norman Mineta with Rahm Emanuel the ambassador to Japan, according to the White House. We’re holding.
POTUS left the residence at 6:24 PM and arrived at the RON two minutes later, according to the White House.
The pool was not able to see POTUS’s movement from the holding area. Ambassador Katherine Tai was also in attendance, according to Adam Hodge, a spokesman. We have a LID at 6:28 pm.
Thanks for following along, everyone!