 the Acting Secretary of the Interior has adopted and submitted to me for approval the following amendment of the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2345 of August 11, 1939, as last amended by Proclamation No. 2589 of July 16, 1943, permitting and governing the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof, included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals concluded February 7, 1936:
AMENDMENT OF MIGRATORY BIRD TREATY ACT REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE ACTING SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
Under authority and direction of section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of July 3, 1918 (40 Stat. 755), as amended by the act of June 20, 1936 (49 Stat. 1555), the administration of which act was transferred to the Secretary of the Interior on July 1, 1939, by Reorganization Plan No. II (53 Stat. 1431), I, Abe Fortas, Acting Secretary of the Interior, having due regard to the zones of temperature and to the distribution, abundance, economic value, breeding habits, and times and lines of migratory flight of migratory birds included in the terms of the Convention between the United States and Great Britain for the protection of migratory birds, concluded August 16, 1916, and the Convention between the United States and the United Mexican States for the protection of migratory birds and game mammals, concluded February 7, 1936, have determined when, to what extent, and by what means it is compatible with the terms of said conventions and act to allow the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such birds and parts thereof and their nests and eggs, and, in accordance with such determinations, do hereby amend, as specified, the regulations approved by Proclamation No. 2345 of August 11, 1939, as last amended by Proclamation No. 2589 of July 16, 1943, and as so amended do hereby adopt such regulations as suitable regulations, permitting and governing the hunting, taking, capture, killing, possession, sale, purchase, shipment, transportation, carriage, exportation, and importation of such migratory birds and parts, nests, and eggs thereof:
The subtitle "Mourning or turtle dove" of Regulation 4, "Open Seasons on and Possession of Certain Migratory Game Birds", is amended to read as follows:
Mourning or turtle dove.—The open seasons on mourning or turtle dove shall be as follows, both dates inclusive:
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and South Carolina, December 1 to January 11.
Arizona, California, Colorado, Kansas, Nevada, New Mexico, and Oklahoma, September 1 to October 12.
Arkansas, Delaware, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia, September 16 to October 27.
Idaho, September 1 to September 10.
Illinois, and Missouri, September 1 to September 30.
Maryland, September 16 to October 15.
Minnesota, September 16 to September 30.
North Carolina, November 25 to January 5.
Oregon, September 1 to September 15.
Texas, in Kinney, Uvalde, Medina, Bexar, Comal, Hays, Travis, Williamson, Bell, Falls, McLennan, Hill, Navarro, Kaufman, Hunt, Hopkins, Delta, and Lamar Counties, and all counties north and west thereof, September 1 to October 12; in remainder of State October 20 to November 30.
, I have hereunto subscribed my name and caused the seal of the Department of the Interior to be affixed, this 7th day of October, 1943.
Abe Fortas,
 upon consideration it appears that the foregoing amendment will effectuate the purposes of the aforesaid Migratory Bird Treaty Act:
, President of the United States of America, do hereby approve and proclaim the foregoing amendment.
, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 9th day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and forty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and sixty-eighth.
FRANKLIN D ROOSEVELT
By the President:
CORDELL HULL