Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from the White House.
We have a 2-minute warning for Karine Jean-Pierre's briefing.
Pool Report 2/Gathered
The pool has gathered for President Biden's bill signing event.
We have a 2 minute warning for President Biden's event in the State Dining Room.
The event is being streamed live on the White House website.
President Biden entered the State Dining Room at 3:13. Check out the White House website for a live feed of the event.
The White House shares the following:
Joining the President onstage for the signing of Bill S.3580, Ocean Shipping Reform Act of 2022:
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission Daniel Maffei
Senator Maria Cantwell (WA)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Representative Pete DeFazio (OR-04)
Representative John Garamendi (CA-03)
Representative Dusty Johnson (SD-At Large)
Wade Miquelon, CEO of Jo-Ann Stores
Vincent "Zippy" Duvall, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Representative Nanette Barragan (CA-44)
Representative Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)
Representative Jimmy Panetta (CA-20)
Representative Kim Schrier (WA-8)
Representative Mike Thompson (CA-05)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Administration officials, and representatives from the private sector and agricultural industry.
Vincent "Zippy" Duvall, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation
The President
Signing S. 3580, the Ocean Shipping Act of 2022, into law will help fix supply chains and ease shipping backlogs. This bill will level the playing field for American exporters and importers, including farmers, and reduce costs for American consumers, by lowering the cost of ocean shipping.
President Biden left the State Dining Room at 3:47 after mingling with guests and posing for many selfies. He did not answer reporter questions.
Immediately ater signing the Ocean Shipping Reform Act, Biden heard and looked quizzically at journalists who shouted questions about what he's doing to reopen the Black Sea and about why he hasn't sanctioned Russian oligarch Yelena Baturina, who allegedly did business with his son.
Another journalist asked a question about Jamal Khashoggi.
A fourth journalist loudly shouted at the president: "Why have you stopped taking questions from the press? What are you afraid of?"
At 4:23, we received a travel/photo lid.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Assistant Secretary for Health Rachel Levine are hosting a briefing room Q&A with parents to discuss the baby formula crisis.
There's at least one baby stroller and a smattering of infant wails.
The pool was not informed of the event and it's unclear if the footage will be released publicly.
The briefing room Q&A with parents about the baby formula crisis ended without any questions going to White House reporters, who joined the event as it was underway.
Many of the parents seemed to be bloggers or representatives of parents groups.
Dr. Ashish Jha, the White House coronavirus coordinator, joined Jean-Pierre and Admiral Levine on the stage and took some parent questions on COVID-19 vaccines.
As the briefing ended, members of the White House press corps asked Jha and Levine if they would stay for some additional press questions, but Jean-Pierre led them off stage.
As they departed, a reporter shouted, "Admiral Levine, could you share any information about when President Biden learned of the baby formula crisis and who briefed him?" She did not respond.
After departing the room, Levine returned moments later to pose for photos with babies behind the podium
"Admiral Levine, are you able to say anything about when President Biden was briefed?" a reporter asked Levine near the podium.
"I'm not answering any questions. Thank you. Nice to meet you, though," Levine replied.