Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon — I'll be your pooler for the vice president's Roe V. Wade event this afternoon. Event is slated to begin at 2:30 pm, from the vice president's office in the EEOB.
No livestream of the event is planned. I'll attempt to pass along an Otter recording of the event's public portion when I can.
Pool entered the VP's ceremonial office in the EEOB with the Vice President seated at the head of the table. Event began at 2:33
VP's office sends this along as background, including a list of participants
Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene constitutional law, privacy, and technology experts to discuss what is at stake if 
 is overruled. The conversation will highlight the real-world implications if 
falls, including in areas such as privacy, contraception, and in vitro fertilization.
The Vice President has spent her career fighting for women, and as Vice President, she has continued to be a forceful advocate of protecting women's reproductive rights, and the right to privacy.
Over the last several weeks, the Vice President has convened 
 and 
 to hear about what their communities are experiencing and to discuss how to chart the path forward. Tomorrow's engagement is a continuation of the Vice President's work convening a broad coalition to protect the health, safety, and wellbeing of women.


The Vice President gave about five minutes of opening remarks to a group of legal experts, whom she said she had gathered in anticipation of the Supreme Court's Roe decision.
The remarks covered a broad range of topics — Otter link and highlight of key quotes to come shortly — but included concerns about invasion of privacy and a loss of "fundamental" rights, beyond the right to an absorption.
"I do believe that overturning Roe could lead the way for challenges to other fundamental rights, including the right to contraception and same-sex marriage," Harris said.
Pool was escorted out at 2:38. The Vice President did not take any questions.
Fuller remarks to come.
Here's the Otter link from the VP's remarks (and a friendly reminder that the transcript from Otter often doesn't match the audio). About five minutes in all.
A few key quotes:
The VP said the nation was founded on "principles of freedom, liberty, and self-determination."
"From these principles, most notably come the Constitutional right to privacy, the rights of an individual to make decisions about their life, about their family, about their family, about their body, without government interference. And so there is a lot at stake in the outcome of this decision."
"But I do believe that we should prepare for the right to privacy to be attacked and under attack with this decision."
The vice president mentioned concern about "bad actors" who could use menstrual tracking apps or Google search results against vulnerable citizens and that she was worried about the future of in vitro fertilization.
"I have concern that if Roe is overturned, states with abortion could potentially restrict IVF if their definition of life begins at the point of fertilization."
She said that states with abortion bans could also "potentially restrict specific types of of contraception in particular IUDs and the so-called morning after pill.
That's all from me this afternoon. Please reach out if you have any questions.