Pool Reports by 
, 
Hey all, I'm your in town pooler for this beautiful Tuesday in DC. The pool has been called to gather at the Palm Doors.
Here's a quick review of Biden's day per the White House:
Traveling with the President: Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
The president and First Lady came out around 8:12 but did not stop to talk to pool.
Biden and the First Lady walked out and to the helicopter hand in hand. Ignored questions. Wheels up 8:16.
In-town pool is loaded up to head to JBA to cover Biden's return to the White House.
Rolled out at 12:58.
Motorcade rolled back to White House around 2:13.
Motorcade pulled onto campus around 2:34. Pool did not see POTUS.
[
]
The event in the Rose Garden has begun and we're waiting on President Biden. There are tables of drink and food being passed around by waiters. Seems like about 150 people in attendance.
(Shout out to the WH side who pointed out actor Daniel Dae Kim.)
From the White House:
In attendance for the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month reception are more than 200 guests, including members of Congress, members of the Administration, and Asian-American leaders and advocates.
Speaking program:
The First Lady
Ambassador Katherine Tai, United States Trade Representative
The Vice President
The President
The event will be live-streamed on the WH channels.
[
]
Reminder: it's live-streamed on White House channels.
Event wrapped at 4:40. President Biden and VP Harris addressed the shooting in Buffalo and overall hate and racism in the country.
Biden and Harris participated in a photo line until 5:04 before heading back into the White House.
Travel/photo lid called at 5:19 PM. Have a lovely evening everyone!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning, I'll be your out-of-town pooler today. The President and First Lady will be traveling to Buffalo, NY today in the wake of Saturday's mass shooting.
Pool has been swept at JBA and we await POTUS' arrival. Below, please find the background statement on the visit sent out by a White House official last night as well as the travel portion of today's schedule:
On background from a White House official –
[Today], the President and the First Lady will travel to Buffalo to meet with families of the victims, law enforcement and first responders, and community leaders. During the trip, the President and First Lady will visit the TOPS Market Memorial, where they'll pay their respects to the lives lost in Saturday's tragic shooting. Afterwards, the President and First Lady will meet with family members of the victims, law enforcement and first responders, and local leaders at a community center to offer their condolences and comfort to those affected by this tragedy.
After, the President will deliver remarks at the community center. The President will call this despicable act for what it is: terrorism motivated by a hateful and perverse ideology that tears at the soul of our nation. He'll call on all Americans to give hate no safe harbor, and to reject the lies of racial animus that radicalize, divide us, and led to the act of racist violence we saw on Saturday that took the lives of 10 of our countrymen. President Biden will call on Congress to take action to keep weapons of war off our streets, and keep guns out of the hands of criminals and people who have a serious mental illness that makes them a danger to themselves or others. And the President will call on Americans to seek a more perfect Union that embraces the diversity that has made us the strongest and most dynamic nation in the history of the world.
-----
Clear, pretty day on the tarmac at JBA. M1 was wheels down at 8:24 am, with POTUS and FLOTUS stepping off three minutes later, removing their masks.
They walked side by side and headed up the stairs without taking questions. The First Couple boarded the aircraft at 8:28.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle during the flight; look for that to be live-streamed on the WH site. The first in-town pool report listed travelers with the president and we spotted Senate Majority Chuck Schumer board AF1.
We will be rolling and wheels up shortly.
AF1 was wheels down at Buffalo-Niagara International Airport at 9:29 am. POTUS and FLOTUS held hands as they departed the plane at 9:40. The president then hugged NY Gov Kathy Hochul and spoke to Sen. Schumer and Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. He then shook hands with law enforcement officers awaiting on the tarmac.
Before stepping into the motorcade, Biden and Schumer had a quick private conversation with the Senate Majority Leader repeatedly patting his own chest. POTUS then tapped Schumer's shoulder. A bouquet of white flowers was spotted on the seat of the presidential limo. We are rolling at 9:46.
During the flight, press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre came back to gaggle. A few highlights:
- She said the president would deem the shooting an act of "terrorism motivated by hateful and perverse ideology that tears are the soul of our nation" and that he would "call on Congress to take weapons of war off our streets."
- She said they would be studying the domestic terrorism prevention legislation.
- She said that the WH would not call out by name those in politics or media espousing the racist replacement theory saying they don't want to give them any additional attention. She said "The people who spread this filth know who they are and should be ashamed of themselves."
- She expressed confidence that Finland and Sweden would be admitted to NATO and pointed to the leaders' visit to the White House this week.
- She provided no update on student loans and declined to speak on today's primary elections.
She spoke for roughly 18 minutes. There were no other visitors to the press cabin. Per WH, Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Buffalo, New York on Air Force One:
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Representative Brian Higgins (NY-27)
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Julie Rodriguez, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Intergovernmental Affairs
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Michael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Michael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Staff Secretary
Jonathan Black, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs Liaison
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Jean-Pierre added that joining the president on the ground in Buffalo will be a delegation including NY Gov. Kathy Hochul, the mayor of Buffalo and other local leaders
At 9:59, the motorcade arrived at TOPS Market, the site of Saturday's mass shooting that killed 10 people and injured three others.
The ride was uneventful, with a smattering of supporters - and a few people holding Trump signs - near the airport. More onlookers were on the streets near the supermarket
Updates to follow. Also, per WH, the greeters back at the airport:
Kathy Hochul, Governor, New York (NY)
Byron Brown, Mayor of Buffalo (NY)
New York police officers and firefighters
Participating in a greet with the President and the First Lady on the tarmac:
Erie County Sheriff John Garcia
Erie County Undersheriff William Cooley
Chief of Police of Cheektowaga Brian Gould
Major for Troop A or New York State police Eugene staniszewski
Colonel Richard Allen of NY State Police
Chief of the NFTA (airport authority) Police Brian Patterson
Division Chief from Buffalo FD Wendy Majtyka-Hartman
Chief of NFTA (airport authority) Fire Department William Major
The First Couple stepped out of the limousine at 10:01 and walked hand-in-hand to a makeshift memorial just across from the supermarket. The First Lady placed a bouquet of white flowers. POTUS crossed himself as both stood silently in front of a tree, the base of which is now covered with tributes to the victims, including flowers, signs and candles
After placing flowers at the memorial, Biden and the First Lady stood for about one minute paying their respects. The President put his right hand to his heart. The First Lady appeared to nod.
Biden and the First Lady then stepped away from the memorial to make way for Gov. Hochul and Senator Schumer. The two New York officials each placed bouquets down at the tree.
As the New York delegation stepped back to gather around the President and First Lady, New York attorney general Letitia James stayed behind to pay respects at the memorial for at least 30 more seconds.
After talking to the elected officials for several minutes, POTUS stepped back in his vehicle at 10:09 and rolled again a minute later.
The memorial is across a small street from the market's parking lot. Other trees on the street also have been decorated with memorials.
My thanks to co-pooler Zolan Kanno-Young of the NYT for help. Per WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady at the Tops Supermarket Memorial:
Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz (NY)
Reverend Darius Pridgen, Buffalo City Council President
The motorcade arrived at the Delavan Grider Community Center, also in Buffalo, at 10:20. The ride was uneventful; at one point, we passed a group of several hundred schoolchildren waving American flags.
POTUS, per WH, will now meet with the families of the shooting victims and first responders. It is closed press and expected to last a couple of hours. We did not have eyes on the president arriving. The president's remarks are slated to begin at 1:00 pm
A note that NY Gov. Kathy Hochul has taken the podium and begun speaking, kicking off the program at 11:48 am. No sign of the president yet; the WH advises that there will be several speakers going before him. The run of show:
Kathy Hochul, Governor, New York (NY)
Congressman Brian Higgins (NY-26)
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (NY)
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Mayor Byron Brown, 
The President
-----
Also, the WH just now sent this along:
Those who greeted the President and the First Lady on arrival at Joint Base Andrews this morning:
Colonel Matthew Jones, 89th Airlift Wing Commander
Mrs. Edmund, 89th Airlift Wing Senior/Training Protocol Specialist
Mrs. Parrish, 89th Airlift Wing Protocol Specialist
The White House, at 12:19 pm, advises that we are running ahead of schedule and the president will be taking the stage in approximately in two minutes. The speech is being carried live; the president is being introduced by Buffalo Mayor Byron Brown. The WH sent along a note that The President and the First Lady met with survivors and families of victims. Pool asked for their identities, we will let you know if we obtain them.
The president's speech will be held on the basketball gym of the Delavan Grider Community Center. His lectern was positioned in front of two pairs of American and New York State flags. More than a hundred people were gathered in the gym well ahead of Biden's remarks. Elected officials and the families who met with the president backstage have filed in.
Outside, a crowd of several hundred people has gathered. There is some tension in the air, with some gathered loudly trying to plead their case to be let inside.
My thanks again to Zolan for the assist
President Biden began speaking here in Buffalo at 12:23 pm.
The speech is being carried live
POTUS ended his remarks at 12:38 pm, after speaking for approximately 15 minutes.
One detail from inside the room: the President briefly choked up when telling the story of the mass shooting victim who was killed at the grocery store while shopping for a birthday cake for his three-year-old son
At 12:45 pm, the president's motorcade began rolling away from the community center.
The president, with his mask back in place, briefly shook a few hands in the crowd after finishing his speech.
The motorcade arrived at Buffalo-Niagara International Airport at 12:55 pm after an uneventful ride. We are well ahead of schedule.
POTUS came over to speak to the pool on the tarmac for a few moments. He said his message to the grieving families is that they "would be in pain for a long while" but better days will be ahead.
On whether members of Congress and Tucker Carlson are to be blamed for replacement theory fueling violence: he said he believes anybody who echoes or advocates the theory deserves some blame "not for this particular crime, but it serves no purpose, no purpose, except for profit and/or political benefit." He said it is "wrong, simply wrong."
On gun control: says he has "to convince Congress to go back to what I passed years ago." On chances of success, he says "it is going to be very difficult but I am not going to give up."
On domestic terrorism statute, says "we have enough laws on the books to deal with what's going on."
As always, check quotes against the transcript. POTUS and FLOTUS boarded AF1 at 1:00. We will soon be rolling and wheels up to JBA.
AF1 was wheels down at 1:58 pm. No visitors during the flight.
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 2:10 and walked to the waiting motorcade. He will be driving back to the White House
Handing off to in-town pool. Have a great rest of your day.