Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is kicking off a summer-long Talent Pipeline Challenge to fill high quality jobs that will help rebuild our infrastructure and supply chains here at home, and continue our transition from a historic economic recovery to steady and stable growth in the years ahead. This is a nationwide call to action for employers, education and training providers, states, local, Tribal, and territorial governments, and philanthropic organizations to make tangible commitments that support equitable workforce development in three critical infrastructure sectors: Broadband, Construction, and "Electrification" (EV Charging Infrastructure and Battery Manufacturing). These commitments will complement the Federal government's investment in workforce development and help ensure there are trained workers who are ready to meet the demands of implementing the historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as the country transitions from a historic economic recovery to stable and steady growth that works for working people.
 The Talent Pipeline Challenge will encourage employers to partner with and hire skilled workers from at least one training provider in each region in which the employer has operations, such as a registered apprenticeship program or a community college with a diverse student population. As part of this pledge, employers can partner with national or regional intermediaries or training providers to build, scale, or support local training models to recruit, train, or hire workers in their sector. Training partnerships will build on pathways to quality jobs for women, people of color, and underserved workers— including those from rural and Tribal communities and communities with persistent poverty. As part of this goal:
Employers and training providers are encouraged to include a community-based organization working with women and under-represented groups in the training partnership.
 The Talent Pipeline Challenge will encourage training providers, unions, and other intermediaries, including labor-management skills programs, community colleges, industry associations, philanthropic organizations, and worker centers, to commit to:
Partner with employers to create or bring to scale skills training programs, coupled with wraparound services like transportation assistance and child care, that will prepare workers for in-demand jobs.
Help to recruit regional and local employers from the three infrastructure sectors into the Talent Pipeline Challenge—including through regional convenings.
Work with employer partners to identify, recruit, and support local women and workers of color so they will be employed in infrastructure jobs, including workers from communities with persistent poverty, and rural and Tribal communities.
 The Talent Pipeline Challenge is calling on state, local, Tribal, and territorial governments to commit to:
The Administration is undertaking a wide range of actions to support workforce development related to the three industries highlighted in the Talent Pipeline Challenge. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes over $800 million in dedicated funding for job training, as well as additional investments where agencies may encourage the use of the funds for training. Agencies are including, where possible, workforce development as an allowable activity in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law programs and identifying funds both within the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, like funds from large federal-aid highway investments, and through other funding streams— like ARP's State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds and Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) funding — that can be invested in workforce training programs. The Department of Labor (DOL) is working to align federal workforce investments in registered apprenticeships and workforce programs at community colleges to meet infrastructure workforce needs. The Administration will also work to support state and local partnerships seeking to leverage WIOA funding to support workforce training as well as wrap-around services.
Specific actions include:
DOL announced an additional $50 million in Strengthening Community Colleges Training grants available to support the development and expansion of high-quality workforce training programs at community colleges. These grants will enable community colleges – individually or collectively – to proactively address equity gaps and meet the skills development needs of local employers and workers, including for infrastructure- related fields.
The Department of Commerce's (DOC) Internet for All program's Notice of Funding Opportunities (NOFOs) prioritize high labor standards and protections, as well as workforce development initiatives, to ensure there is a trained, diverse workforce ready to support the programs. In particular, the Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment (BEAD) NOFO makes workforce development an eligible use of grant funds, and requires a highly-skilled workforce, which can be fulfilled through use of graduates of registered apprenticeships or other joint labor-management training programs. The NOFO also requires Eligible Entities to develop a plan for ensuring an available and highly skilled workforce in order to receive their funds.
The Department of Energy (DOE), in consultation with DOL, is providing $5 million to support a national battery workforce sectoral strategy, leading to national training standards and industry-recognized credentials.
DOE's Solar Energy Technology Office, with Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding, is supporting quality pre-apprenticeships for clean energy construction careers.
DOL is developing, in collaboration with the Department of Transportation (DOT), DOE, and DOC, guidance that will encourage federal agencies and workforce system stakeholders —like American Job Centers (AJCs) and workforce boards, industry associations, worker centers, unions, and employers—to partner on infrastructure projects, share labor market information and expertise, and to shape workforce development activities to reflect proven strategies and practices that deliver sustainable, equitable outcomes.
In March, DOT and DOL signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that will help facilitate efforts between the two agencies on workforce and job quality. The MOU will leverage the individual and combined resources and expertise of both agencies to ensure the actions necessary to meet common goals related to expanding equitable access to quality jobs for workers and communities in the development and modernization of American infrastructure.
Over the course of the summer, the Administration will collaborate with employers and other critical stakeholders to encourage action on new or existing workforce efforts. Agencies will also highlight best practices to address infrastructure talent pipeline needs.
Wilmington, Delaware is leveraging the Fiscal Recovery Funds from ARP to expand their Howard High School of Technology workforce development program – funding high school and adult job training in construction, plumbing, HVAC, and more. The city has also committed to using their local workforce for ARP funded neighborhood revitalization projects and is assisting local contractors in obtaining information and participating in ARP-funded projects. Wilmington is connecting graduates from the Howard High School training program to jobs with local employers working on local revitalization projects, and soon Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funded infrastructure projects – helping residents get access to these good jobs and helping employers access the talent they need to successfully complete these government projects.
Washington D.C. is expanding its D.C. Infrastructure Academy with Fiscal Recovery Funds from ARP to meet the need for skilled infrastructure professionals. The Infrastructure Academy offers high-quality training in infrastructure jobs under one roof and gives D.C. residents the opportunity to gain skills and secure good infrastructure jobs. The program recruits, trains, screens, and supports job placement of residents to fulfill the needs of the D.C. infrastructure industry, matching graduates to infrastructure jobs with leading companies in these high-demand fields.