Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Rehoboth Beach! Your pool has been swept and we are awaiting a presidential bike ride. It's breezy and 74 degrees.
More details as they come.
At 8:29 a.m. the president biked by the pool, surrounded by agents.
"Good morning," he told the pool, giving us a wave.
He's wearing bright blue shoes and a white helmet. Also a grey t-shirt and Navy shorts .
Several members of the pool shouted "Mr. President!" at him but he breezed by before questions were asked.
Dr. Biden was not with him.
More TK
At 9:40 the president took a tumble off his bike as he stopped to say hello to the crowd. Secret Service swarmed him and he got up and then started talking to the crowd.
More Tk
At 9:22 a.m. first lady Jill Biden went by on her own, also with her detail.
She's wearing a magenta top, black pants and sporting a silver helmet.
About 30 or so beach goers caught wind of Biden's presence and are standing near the pool.
I uploaded pictures to a Dropbox here:
"I'm good," the president said when pool asked if he was OK after he fell, he said he had trouble taking his biking shoes out of the pedals. He had bike clips in.
He pulled a woman out of the crowd to meet Commander. He spoke with the crowd.
He answered a few questions from the pool as well.
He will speak to Xi "soon."
"We're in the process of doing that," he said when asked about rethinking China tariffs.
"In Delaware I am," he said when asked about progress on gun control.
"Did you see what they did in Delaware?" He said of an assault weapons ban.
"I am happy with progress I am ready to sign it," he said of the Congressiknal bill.
At 9:44 a.m. he got back on the bike and sped off.
Sending better quotes in a bit.
Dr. Biden kept going so she missed her husband's fall. He stopped and came over to the waiting crowd, tried to unclip and fell over sideways, creating a mad scramble of Secret Service and press. Observers had tried to tell Biden "Happy Father's Day." He stood up right away and talked to the crowd before coming closer to the press – answering the questions below. There were no visible scrapes or bruises from the spill.
MORE QUOTES:
Asked "are you ok?"
"Yeah yeah yeah," he also said.
About what caused the fall: he said the "toe cages" on his bike got caught.
Asked about China tariffs, he joked with a reporter "I'm not going to talk to you on my vacation."
About his anniversary "Thank you."
How soon are you talking to Xi?
"Soon"
Have you mad up your mind about tariffs?
"We're in the process of doing that."
You're lifting the tariffs?
"I'm in the process of making up my mind."
Are you satisfied with progress on gun legislation?
"In Delaware, I am. Did you see what they did in Delaware? Passed an assaults weapons ban. They did what I did years ago. But I am happy with the progress.
"Alright guys, see you," Biden said as he got on the bike.
The White House has called a lunch lid until 2:45 p.m.
The current plan is church tonight.
"As the President said, his foot got caught on the pedal while dismounting and he is fine. No medical attention is needed. The President looks forward to spending the rest of the day with his family."
Also a huge thanks to the NYT's Zachary Montague for helping transcribe Biden's comments to pool after the fall.
I've also updated the Dropbox with footage I shot of the incident:
At 3:55 p.m. the press van joined President Biden's motorcade.
The White House informed us earlier we were going to church.
More TK
The motorcade weaved through quiet streets of beach houses and momentarily passed the ocean. Clusters of people watched from Rehoboth's main drag. Pooler saw one thumbs up.
Mass is at St. Edmond.
Motorcade stopped at 4:01 p.m. Pool didn't see Biden enter.
We're waiting outside.
At 4:58 p.m. President Biden exited church.
Bystanders cheered as he was asked how he was feeling. He smiled, and took three hops forward, making a jump-rope motion with his hands.
He got in his SUV moments later.
We are rolling as of 5 p.m.
Uploading the video to the Dropbox.
At 5:28 p.m. the White House called a lid.
As always, a pleasure being your pooler. Have a great rest of your Saturday!