Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'm your pool reporter today. Reach out with any questions.
POTUS has only one event today on his public schedule. The press briefing is scheduled for 3 pm. More to come this afternoon.
From the White House:
President Biden called President Zelenskyy this morning to discuss the United States' ongoing support for Ukraine as it defends itself against Russian aggression. They spoke from 10:54 – 11:35 AM EDT.
Two-minute warning. Per the White House:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by John Kirby, National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications
The press briefing ended at 3:50 pm. Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors for the Pride Month event.
Pool was ushered into the East Room at 3:53 pm.
The East Room is packed shoulder-to-shoulder with attendees, very few of whom are wearing masks.
Music is drifting in from the Cross Hall, which is lit up in rainbow colors.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Sen. Jeff Merkley and other lawmakers are milling about at the front of the room.
POTUS' remarks will be live streamed on the White House channel.
Background from the White House:
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Deb Haaland, Secretary of Interior
Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
Assistant Secretary for Health Admiral Rachel Levine
Jessica Stern, Special Envoy to Advance the Human Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons, State Department
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Senator Chris Coons (CT)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Representative David Cicilline (RI-1)
Representative Katherine Clark (MA-5)
Representative Mondaire Jones (NY-17)
Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Representative Mark Pocan (WI-2)
Representative Mark Takano (D-41)
Representative Ritchie Torres (NY-15)
Jim Obergefell
Judy and Dennis Shepard
Sen. Sarah McBride
Ashton Mota, last year's Pride introducer, and his mom, Carmen Paulino
Community leaders, advocates, members of the administration, and staff
The First Lady
Javier Gomez, Youth Activist
The President
The Vice President
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
Assistant Secretary for Health Admiral Rachel Levine
Ashton Mota
Gia Parr
Amir Belt
Jack Petocz
Kayden Asher
President Biden entered at 4:21 p.m., alongside First Lady Jill Biden and Javier Gomez, a youth activist. FLOTUS is now speaking to kick things off.
POTUS started his remarks at 4:32 pm and concluded at 4:44 pm.
After finishing his remarks, POTUS sat down at a desk next to the podium to sign an executive order on advancing equality for LGBTQI+ individuals.
Biden was joined on the stage by a group of young activists, Vice President Kamala Harris, SGOTUS, and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, among others.
Following the signing, Biden stood up and exited the East Room at 4:47 pm after waiving briefly to the crowd. Pool was ushered out at 4:51 p.m.
The White House called a lid at 5:10 p.m.
Have a good evening.