Pool Reports by 
, 
VP pool report #1 -- gather/event begins
Hi, I am your VP pool reporter for this afternoon's event and we are gathered inside EEOB for it to start, which should be any minute now.
There are about 40 people seated in chairs watching, with the participants seated at a rectangular set of tables. Harris has not arrived yet.
Here is the official announcement from the White House:
At 1:40PM EDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks announcing the launch of the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse. The event in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building will be pooled press and livestreamed on 
.
More to come,
The event began at 1:46 p.m. and is streaming.
More information below from the VP's office:
Order of speakers:
Panelists:
- Matthew Herrick, survivor and advocate
- Francesca Rossi, survivor and victim advocate/Licensed Clinical Social Worker
- Mary Anne Franks, Cyber Civil Rights Initiative, Professor, University of Miami Law School
- Carrie Goldberg, prosecutor and victim rights advocate
- Melissa Diaz, Chief, San Diego County District Attorney's Office Family Protection Division

Today at 1:40 PM ET, Vice President Kamala Harris will launch the White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse. Her remarks will be livestreamed at 
.
Today, President Biden signed a 
 establishing the Task Force, responding to the need for government leadership to address online harms, which disproportionately affect women, girls, people of color, and LGBTQI+ individuals. The tragic events in Buffalo and Uvalde have underscored a fact known all too well by many Americans: the internet can fuel hate, misogyny, and abuse with spillover effects that threaten our communities and safety offline.
Vice President Harris has long been a champion of addressing online harassment and abuse. As California's Attorney General and U.S. Senator, the Vice President led efforts to end cyber exploitation through prosecuting bad actors and crafting legislation to enhance protections for victims and to expand law enforcement resources for investigations.
Read more in the Fact Sheet: 
Additional Background
Vice President Harris has a long record of advocating for victims of cyber exploitation.