Pool Report by 
, 
Dr. Biden is attending the press launch for the Metropolitan Museum of Art's spring Costume Institute exhibition "In America: An Anthology of Fashion." Tonight is the Met Gala but FLOTUS will be going back to the White House to host a celebration of Eid al-Fitr with the President.
FLOTUS walked into the room with Anna Wintour at 11:01 and sat in the first row of chairs. Film Director Janicza Bravo is also in the first row -- she designed two rooms in the exhibit along with other directors like Sophia Coppola, Tom Ford, Regina King, Autumn de Wilde and Martin Scorsese. (The exhibit is fascinating and lively and your pooler recommends seeing it.) There are maybe 300 masked people, both sitting and standing. It is in a beautiful room in the American Wing, The Charles Engelhard Court, with a glass atrium ceiling. Classic statues are scattered throughout the room. There is a clear lectern in front of a pool with two bronze statues of babies. Huge marble urns on pedestals on both side have what look like arrangements of twigs of cherry blossoms,
She is in a black mask and black knee length dress with white and blue flower. Took the stage at 11:21. Finished at 11:24. Got a standing O both at the beginning and end. Museum reps praised her commitment to education, making clear that she was invited as an advocate for education.
Here's her speech ... she talks about the power of fashion and wearing a sunflower in her sleeve for Ukraine. I've bolded. Note: she'll be heading to Romania and Slovakia over Mother's Day. Announcement was made last night and there's been plenty of coverage on it.
SPEECH
Gosh, I love seeing so many of you here in support of education. Thank you, Deanna for that beautiful introduction. And no matter the words we choose, or the speeches we give, the world sees the totality of who we are, the way we carry ourselves, how we put our shoulders back when times are tough, or offer a friendly smile even when we don't agree. How we choose to show up for our communities. The small acts of kindness that are remembered long after they are offered. And that includes what we wear, beautiful or dissonant, finely crafted or thrown together. 
We reveal and conceal who we are with symbols and shapes, colors and cuts and who creates them. The history of American design is rich and deep. It is a story of innovation and ingenuity, of rebellion and renewal. It has often been written by those in the shadows, not recognized for their influence and art. But here at the Met, their stories are told their voices are raised and their work can shine. And that's why I'm so excited to accept Anna's invitation to join you to celebrate this incredible exhibit and the education that is such a critical part of your mission. 
Earlier today I announced that at the end of this week, I'll be headed to Romania and Slovakia to visit our troops and spend Mother's Day with Ukrainian families who've been displaced by Putin war. As a mother myself, I can only imagine the grief the families are feeling. I know that we might not share a language. But I hope that I can convey in ways so much greater than words, that their resilience inspires me, that they are not forgotten. And that all Americans stand with them still. As we celebrate the designers and the fashion that has shaped the very identity of America. I hope it will inspire all of us to keep learning. I hope it will help us to see the beauty and art that surrounds us every day. And most importantly, I hope it will remind us just to be bold and brave. Thank you for all that you do. And I hope you enjoy the exhibit. Thank you very much.
GUIDANCE FROM WHITE HOUSE
, the First Lady will deliver remarks at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's press launch for the spring Costume Institute exhibition 
. This event will be open press. For interested media, please email 
 to request coverage. Please note that space is limited.
After remarks, the First Lady will tour the exhibition with Met Museum interns, as well as Andrew Bolton, the Wendy Yu Curator in Charge of The Costume Institute, and Sylvia Yount, the Lawrence A. Fleischman Curator in Charge of The American Wing. This private tour will be closed press.
, the President and First Lady will host a reception in celebration of Eid al-Fitr at the White House. The Second Gentleman will also attend. This event in the East Room will be open to pre-credentialed media. [RSVP here [whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com]