Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi everyone,
Lissa with BuzzFeed News here, begging you to please not refer to it as "nerd prom." I'll be your in-town pooler for today.
Checking in to say that pool has been asked to gather at palm room doors at 5. Will provide more details once we have. Thanks!
POTUS is attending mass in Georgetown, where he arrived at 5:32 p.m. He walked in and waved to a small crowd nearby that cheered. Flagging that this was not originally on the schedule for today.
Motorcade left the White House grounds at 5:22 p.m. It was a chill ride here, the weather’s nice and in the high sixties here in Washington.
POTUS walked out of Holy Trinity Catholic Church at 6:29 p.m. He didn’t come over to gaggle. Photo of him leaving attached.
Motorcade rolling at 6:30 p.m.
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 6:36 p.m.
Motorcade left White House grounds en route to the Washington Hilton for the White House Correspondents' Dinner at 9:05 p.m. We arrived at 9:09 p.m.
POTUS and FLOTUS took their seats at the head table at 9:28 p.m. as the program started. They were greeted with a standing ovation.
We arrived to a very crowded venue as dessert was being served. The vast majority of people are unmasked, though a few people here and there, including many of the people serving food, do have them on.
For context, this large, indoor gathering is happening as members of the administration, including Vice President Kamala Harris, tested positive for COVID in recent days. It's happening despite Anthony Fauci deciding he wasn't willing to take the risk of attending. And it's happening in the wake of dozens of people reportedly testing positive after the Gridiron Dinner, another Washington-establishment event, earlier this month.
POTUS started speaking at 10:07 p.m. EST to a standing ovation. He hasn't worn a mask leading up to this.
As award winners were announced and came out on stage to be recognized, Biden stood and shook their hands. He joined a standing ovation for the Dunnigan-Payne for lifetime achievement award, and another after the in memoriam video played.
Passing on the below seating chart via a White House aide:
"Seated to the President's right:
George Cheeks, CBS News President and CEO
The First Lady
Trevor Noah, Host of the Daily Show
Karen Travers, ABC White House Correspondent
Justin Sink, Bloomberg White House Correspondent
Seated to the President's left:
Steven Portnoy, CBS News White House Correspondent
Tamara Keith, NPR White House Correspondent
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Kelly O'Donnell, NBC White House Correspondent
Fin Gomez, CBSNews Political Director
Francesca Chambers - McClatchy White House Correspondent
Todd Gillman, Dallas Morning News Washington Bureau Chief
Doug Mills - New York Times photographer George Lehner"
POTUS remarks wrapped up at 10:20 p.m. EST. He spoke for under 15 minutes. Won't quote him here since it was streamed, but biggest laugh seemed to be in response to his Fox News joke early on in his remarks. No hecklers during his speech.
He introduced Trevor Noah and returned to his seat. POTUS continued not wearing a mask for the rest of the time he was at the head table.
Noah opened with a very good question for the room: "Do any of you read any of your own newspapers?" Joked this is the most distinguished super-spreader event in the country.
Motorcade left the hotel at 10:56 p.m. EST.
It arrived back on White House grounds at 11:00 p.m.
We have a lid for the night. Thanks for following along. 