Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, and happy May Day and morning-after-WHCD. It's cloud/chilly (60 degrees).
Pool has gathered for POTUS liftoff on Marine One from south lawn, en route JBA then Minneapolis for the memorial service of former VPOTUS Walter Mondale.
Potus, dressed in dark suit, emerged from WH central portico at 10:44 am.
As he walked to M1, he was asked if he had talked to Speaker Pelosi.
"Not since she's landed" he said.
M1 lifted off from the South Lawn at 10:48.
Handing off to travel pool.
From the press office:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
From the White House:
President Biden spoke with Speaker Pelosi today following her return to Poland to discuss her visit to Ukraine and her meeting with President Zelenskyy.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 7:29 pm.
POTUS emerged at 7:31 pm and walked straight into the White House thru the central portico. He started with a mask on, peeled it off part way across. Didn’t respond to shouted questions.
Travel/photo lid called at 7:32 pm.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from JBA and happy day after the WHCA dinner.
Marine One touched down at 10:56am and POTUS boarded Air Force One.
POTUS is traveling to Minneapolis, Minnesota to attend and deliver remarks at the memorial service of Vice President Walter Mondale. The service is at the Northrop Memorial Auditorium at University of Minnesota.
Air Force One was wheels up at 11:10am, heading to Minnesota.
POTUS landed at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP) at 12:37pm CDT.
He spent several minutes speaking with his greeters on the tarmac. We are rolling to the University of Minnesota.
Passing along from the WH-
Upon arrival at MSP, the President will be greeted by
Greeting the President on the tarmac at MSP will be:
Passing along from the White House—
President Biden spoke with Speaker Pelosi today following her return to Poland to discuss her visit to Ukraine and her meeting with President Zelenskyy.
POTUS entered the Northrop Auditorium, Carlson Family Stage at the University of Minnesota at 1:39pm to applause and took a seat on the far end of the front row. The Mondale memorial service has started with remarks from Gov. Walz.
Passing along from the White House--
The funeral program is scheduled to proceed as follows:
- Minnesota Governor Tim Walz delivers remarks welcoming guests and reflecting on Vice President Mondale's southern Minnesota values.
- University of Minnesota President John Gabel moves to the stage and delivers remarks welcoming guests to the University of Minnesota.
- Larry Jacobs delivers remarks.
- Reverend Tim Hart-Andersen delivers remarks.
- A video plays of Josie Johnson delivering remarks.
- Senator Tina Smith delivers remarks including a eulogy from President Jimmy Carter and a statement from President Clinton.
- Jon Meacham moves to the stage and delivers remarks.
- Senator Amy Klobuchar delivers remarks
- 
deliver remarks on his
friendship with Vice President Mondale.
- Theodore and William Mondale deliver remarks.
- Lillian Hochman and Phillip Brunelle perform "Tomorrow" from the musical 
- The University of Minnesota Marching Band move to the stage and perform the Minnesota Rouser.
Passing along--
The earlier statement on the President’s call to Speaker Pelosi is attributable to a White House Official.
And a reminder that Biden's remarks will be live-streamed so I will not be sending quotes. They are coming up after Sen. Klobuchar's remarks.
Let me know any questions!
The motorcade is rolling out of the University of Minnesota as of 3:35pm. The pool did not see POTUS exit the building.
Biden spoke at the Mondale memorial service for about 27 minutes.
Also to note, the guidance from the White House that I passed along spelled the University of Minnesota president’s name wrong. Her name is Joan Gabel.
Biden arrived at MSP at 3:49pm and went inside the airport to greet people before boarding. It’s now rainy and still chilly in Minneapolis.
Biden emerged at 3:57pm and the pool shouted "are you going to Ukraine?" and someone asked about when he’s going to decide about forgiving student debt.
He pointed his hand ahead as his response and he boarded the plane.
Pool saw National security adviser Jake Sullivan take a photo with Sen. Amy Klobuchar on the tarmac.
"Welcome to Minnesota, it is balmy!" Klobuchar said to a very cold, wind blown pool before boarding Air Force One.
We are wheels up at 4:10pm.
Passing along--
Travelling with the President en route JBA :
Guests:
Amy Klobuchar, U.S. Senator (MN)
Norm Ornstein, Emeritus Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute
Jon Meacham, Canon Historian of the Washington National Cathedral
Staff:
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Kaitlyn Demers, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Legislative Affairs
We are wheels down at JBA at 7:03pm EST after an uneventful flight.
From the White House-
Also traveling with the President:
Stu Eizenstat, Special Advisor on Holocaust Issues at U.S. Department of State