Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House, where the weather is positively glorious: a cloudless Wedgwood sky and just a whisper of a breeze. Your pooler is tested
 and awaiting the call to gather for the first of two scheduled events with President Biden today.
Here's the schedule:
At 1.45 p.m. Eastern, President Biden will give remarks from the South Court Auditorium honoring the 230 recipients of the Presidential Rank Award, the most prestigious honor for career civil servants. Winners, who are granted the award for their "sustained extraordinary accomplishment," receive a cash bonus of 35 percent of their salary, plus a framed certificate and a gold pin.
At 4 p.m. Eastern, President Biden will celebrate Eid al-Fitr, the Muslim holiday marking the end of the Ramadan fast. The president will be joined in the East Room by Dr. Jill Biden and Doug(las) Emhoff.
Today's briefing is set for 2.30 p.m. Eastern.
More soon!
Best,
Scott
 The testing center at 708 Jackson now requires masks, just in case you've left yours at home.
The pool and pre-credentialed media are gathering at the stakeout ahead of President Biden's remarks from the South Court Auditorium honoring the Presidential Rank Award winners.
The remarks will be streamed live at 1.45 p.m. Eastern here: 
A two-minute warning for President Biden's remarks from the South Court Auditorium.
The White House also passes along the speaking program for today's event:
The 230 honorees will be attending virtually.
President Biden began speaking at 1.59 p.m. Eastern.
Reminder that the remarks are viewable here: 
President Biden finished speaking at 2.03 p.m.
In response to a shouted question, he said that he would meet with Austin Tice's parents "today," and said that his plan for student loan plan was "not yet" finished.
Two-minute warning for the press briefing, viewable here: 
The press briefing began at 2.43 p.m.
The press briefing concluded at 3.25 p.m.
The pool and pre-credentialed media are gathering at the Palm Room doors for the Eid al-Fitr celebration in the East Room.
The reception for Eid al-Fitr begins in an East Room crowded with guests marking the end of the Ramadan fast, although President Biden will not be speaking for a few minutes. Your pooler will buzz you when he begins his remarks.
The speaking program, per the White House:
Streamable here: 
Watch it here: 
President Biden finished his remarks at 4.33 p.m.
A lid was called at 4.59 p.m.
عيد مبارك to all who celebrate!