Pool Reports by 
, 
Good evening from the White House. I will be serving as your print pooler for Dr. Biden's trip to Romania and Slovakia.
The pool is gathered at the White House ahead of FLOTUS' departure.
From Michael LaRosa, a spokesman for Dr. Biden:
Ashley Biden learned this evening that she was a close contact to someone who tested positive for COVID 19. She tested negative. However, at the recommendation of her physician and out of an abundance of caution she will not travel with her mother to Europe.
Reach out with any questions.
Passing along from the WH:
Tomorrow, the First Lady will visit Mihail Kogalniceanu (MK) Air Base in Romania, where they will meet with U.S. and NATO military leadership. Romanian Air Base, referred to as "MK Base," is a Romanian-owned military base. Its main missions are defending aerial space under Romanian Air Force authority, increasing capabilities to provide expeditionary forces for the whole of Europe, and providing host nation support for Romanian, NATO, and U.S. Forces. They will also serve meals to and visit with some of the U.S. troops assigned to the base before departing for Bucharest. Joining Forces, the First Lady's White House initiative to support military families, will facilitate a special story-time with "United Through Reading," an organization that connects military families with a deployed service member through video recordings and virtual book readings.
The First Lady, Ambassador Mark Gitenstein, Libby Gitenstein, and Assistant Secretary Karen Donfried will deplane and greet with the following individuals:
At MK Base Dining Facility, they will greet with the following individuals:

 Prior to departure to Bucharest, on the tarmac, greets with local police and fire, and seven members of the Delaware Army National Guard.

Traveling with the First Lady
Ambassador Mark Gitenstein, Ambassador to the European Union
Mrs. Libby Gitenstein, Wife to Ambassador Mark Gitenstein
Assistant Secretary Karen Donfried, Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, U.S. Department of State
Anthony Bernal Senior Adviser
Mala Adiga Policy PolicyDirector
Michael LaRosa Press Secretary
Jordan Montoya Director of Advance
Kelsey Donohue Deputy Communications Director
Marty Browne Associate Director for Advance
Camilo Haller Associate Director of Scheduling
John Scanlon Associate Director of Policy
Erin Scott Photographer
Melanie Duran Videographer
Curtis Ried Senior Dir. for Multilateral Affairs, NSC
Daniel Dieckhaus Director for Humanitarian Affairs, NSC
Sharon Weber Deputy Director of Protocol, State Dep.
FLOTUS exited her vehicle at 10:30 p.m and walked over to the press and made brief comments.
"Good evening. I just wanted to say thank you to you all for coming on the trip. I really appreciate it. It's so important to the President and to me that the Ukrainian people know that we stand with them. So I hope you have a good flight. Thank you."
We are headed to Shannon Airport and expected to arrive at 9:50 am local time.
Executive One Foxtrot will be wheels up shortly.