Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. I'll be your pooler today.
The only thing on POTUS' public schedule today is the 12:15 p.m. event with Judge Jackson on the South Lawn, so more to come in a few hours. But wanted to pass along this info from the White House about the invites:
Invited to today's commemoration of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's historic and bipartisan Senate confirmation are Judge Jackson's family, all current and former Justices of the Supreme Court, members of the Cabinet, all U.S. Senators who voted to confirm Judge Jackson, members of House Democratic Leadership, members of the Congressional Black Caucus, the chairs of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, Democratic members of the House Judiciary Committee, Democratic members of Congress from Florida, and key stakeholders including labor leaders, Tribal leaders, and advocacy groups.
The pool (and a larger group of photographers) were brought out to the South Lawn just after 11:30 a.m. to set up for the event with POTUS and KBJ, scheduled to start at 12:15 p.m.
There are already hundreds of people milling about, chatting and taking pics of themselves on the lawn with the flag-bedecked South Portico behind them.
There are also a few dozen flags lined up in the driveway and four sections of folding white chairs about 8-12 rows deep arrayed in front of the presidential lectern, which looks to be positioned about 150 feet from the door to the south portico.
The Marine band is seated on the east side of the lawn and playing. It's a pretty perfect April day out here, 58 degrees and sunny with an almost cloudless sky.
I will tweet a photo of the set-up and send another note when we get a 2-minute warning or sooner if news warrants.
The remarks will be available in all the usual places, including 
.
Folks here were just asked to take their seats, but we're probably still a few minutes away from the program beginning.
From the WH:
In attendance for the commemoration of Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson's historic and bipartisan confirmation as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court:
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
Judge Jackson's family
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young
United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai
United States Ambassador to the United States Linda Thomas-Greenfield
Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Senator Dick Durbin (IL)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Senator Mazie Hirono (HI)
Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)
Senator Ed Markey (MA)
Senator Jon Ossoff (GA)
Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)
Representative Joyce Beatty (OH-3)
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36)
Representative Jamaal Bowman (NY-16)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Representative Cori Bush (MO-1)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Representative Troy Carter (LA-2)
Representative David Cicilline (RI-1)
Representative Lou Correa (CA-46)
Representative Dwight Evans (PA-3)
Representative Al Green (TX-9)
Representative Steven Horsford (NV-4)
Representative Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18)
Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)
Representative Barbara Lee (CA-13)
Representative Lucy McBath (GA-6)
Representative Ilhan Omar (MN-5)
Representative Stacey Plaskett (VI)
Representative Ayanna Pressley (MA-7)
Representative Ritchie Torres (NY-15)
Representative Nikema Williams (GA-5)
Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
Key stakeholders including labor leaders, Tribal leaders, and advocacy groups
The Vice President
The President
Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson
Just got a two-minute warning at 12:29 p.m. as FLOTUS and SG Doug Emhoff are being introduced and walking out from the South Portico doors.
Earlier at 12:25, Judge Jackson's husband and daughters walked out to their seats as the crowd clapped.
Again, the event is open press and available at 
POTUS, VP and Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson were introduced at 12:32 p.m. and emerged from the South Portico doors and walked to the lectern as the Marine Band played Hail to the Chief.
VP, who is speaking first, took the lectern at 12:33.
The event on the South Lawn concluded at 1:15 p.m. when Judge Jackson wrapped an emotional speech and hugged POTUS and then VPOTUS.
POTUS at one point removed his sunglasses and appeared to wipe away a tear.
The three turned and walked back toward the South Portico and entered the WH residence at 1:16. Just before entering, KBJ turned and waved once more to the crowd.
Pool will be heading back in soon. Briefing is still scheduled for 2 p.m. as of now.
Per the WH, POTUS "tested negative as part of his regular cadence" today.
I expect we'll get more on this when Jen Psaki briefs in a bit.
Press office informs the pool that the daily briefing with Jen Psaki, originally scheduled for 2 p.m., will now start at 2:30.
Got the two-minute warning for the briefing at 2:35 p.m.
Jen started the briefing at 2:37 p.m. and left the room at 3:20.
Travel/photo lid called at 3:43 p.m. Have a good weekend, everyone.