Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington.
Pool will be headed this morning to the Port of Wilmington for a commissioning commemoration ceremony for the USS Delaware, a nuclear-powered, fast attack submarine. Both POTUS and FLOTUS are expected to speak.
FLOTUS is the sub's official "sponsor." >
The commissioning committee is expecting an audience of 5,000 for the invitation-only event.
The ceremony begins at 11 a.m.. It will be livestreamed.
Upon christening, vessels officially become a U.S. ship "for all purposes of law and tradition." The USS Delaware became the first Navy vessel to be commissioned while underwater after the original commissioning ceremony was canceled in 2020 because of the pandemic.
Here's some information from the Navy on the submarine.
USS Delaware (SSN 791) is a Virginia-class attack submarine.
The Virginia-class, also known as the VA-class or 774-class, is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines in service with the U.S. Navy. The submarines are designed for a broad spectrum of open-ocean and littoral missions. They were conceived as a less expensive alternative to the Seawolf-class attack submarines, designed during the Cold War era, and are replacing older Los Angeles-class submarines, 29 of which have already been decommissioned.
Pool joined POTUS' motorcade as it left his neighborhood. We are rolling to the port.
An update on attendance: The Navy says 1,500 people were invited. The figure of 5,000 given in the previous report was for the 2020 ceremony that was canceled because of the pandemic.
The motorcade arrived at the Port of Wilmington at about 11 am.
Pool separated from POTUS and loaded into golf carts to drive to the pier.
It's a sunny but slightly chilly morning on the water.
Guests are sitting on white folding chairs in front of a stage draped with red, white & blue bunting.
The sub is in the water, behind the stage.
The ceremony began at 11:05.
The official attendance count from the Navy is 1,100.
Participants in the USS Delaware Commissioning Commemoration Ceremony (in order of announcement) include:
The United States Navy Ceremonial Guard Battalion Color Guard Advances the Colors.
The United States Navy Band performs the National Anthem.
The United States Navy Ceremonial Guard Battalion Color Guard Retires the Colors.
Rear Admiral Barry Black, Retired, provides the Invocation
Governor John Carney
Secretary of the Navy Carlos del Toro
Senator Thomas Carper
Captain Thomas Carper, USN Retired
Lieutenant Stephen Walsh, U.S. Navy
The President
The First Lady
Breaking of the Flag
Commanding Officer Matthew Horton
Rear Admiral Barry Black, Retired
POTUS, wearing his sunglasses, began speaking at 11:50 a.m.
He said it's always a good day when he can celebrate Delaware.
He spoke about 3 minutes before introducing FLOTUS.
FLOTUS was dressed all in red, including gloves.
"Delaware is family," she said, recalling her pride at getting to be the sub's sponsor.
In 2018, she said, she christened the sub in a shower of champagne.
She said the sub will uphold the state's motto of liberty and independence.
She told the crew she is "proud and humbled to be your shipmate for life."
She finished speaking at about noon.
"Man our ship and bring her to life," she told the crew.
Sailors, holding a hand over their hearts, jogged past the stage and onto the sub.
Two planes flew overhead as the sub made a variety of noises.
The crew saluted and the audience clapped.
Sen. Carper had been the keynote speaker. He welcomed Jill Biden "and your plus one."
Carper warned adversaries of the US:
"Don't mess with the USS Delaware."
After introducing the sub to the Delawareans in the audience, Carper said he wanted to introduce Delaware to the sub's crew. His description included this fun fact: There are nearly 300 chickens for every person in DE.
"Long may she sail," Carper said of the sub as he wrapped up his remarks.
POTUS & FLOTUS walked across a brow from the pier to get onto the sub at about 12:30 pm. POTUS stopped midway on the brow & saluted.
He ignored a shouted question from the pool asking if he will provide security guarantees to Ukraine.
He is getting a tour of the sub. Pool is staying on the pier.
At about 2:02 pm POTUS & FLOTUS came out of the sub and took a "class photo" with crew members in front of the ship.
He ignored questions about COVID funding and whether he would help transfer tanks to Ukraine.
Pool was hustled back to the motorcade before POTUS left the group.
Will tweet class photo.
The motorcade left the port at about 2:30 pm.
POTUS was dropped off at his residence at about 2:46 pm.
There was another enthusiastic reception from the house with the Biden sign. Today's welcoming committee included a girl in a Frozen costume.
Pool met up with the motorcade as it left POTUS' neighborhood shortly after 5 pm.
We arrived at Saint Joseph on the Brandywine at about 5:06 pm.
Pool watched from the van as POTUS, wearing a black mask, walked into church.
Pool is now waiting outside, on the sidewalk.
POTUS left the church at 5:50 pm. He did not acknowledge the pool, which was at a distance.
The motorcade returned to his residence at about 5:56 pm.
We have a lid.