Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House on a sunny day.
Pool is about to head to Fort McNair for POTUS's return from Delaware at 10.20am. POTUS is due to deliver remarks about the Administration's Tracking Action Plan to strengthen supply chains at 1.45pm.
The press briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki is at 2.45pm.
The press vans have left the White House and are heading to Fort McNair for POTUS's arrival.
Pool is now in place at Fort McNair awaiting POTUS's arrival.
Marine One touched down on an expansive lawn at Fort McNair at 10.26am. The lawn has big redbrick buildings on two sides, a river on a third side and a small parking lot (where pool is located) on a fourth side.
POTUS disembarked Marine One at 10.29am and walked over to reporters. He said he has been criticised for calling Vladimir Putin a war criminal but reiterated: "He is a war criminal." He used the word "brutal".
POTUS noted the importance of gathering evidence of war crimes and was asked if genocide had been committed. He replied: "No, I think it's a war crime."
He said: "I'm going to continue to add more sanctions." Asked for details, he said: "I'll let you know."
POTUS spoke for about a minute. Motorcade is now heading to the White House. More details to follow.
POTUS arrived at the North Portico of the White House at 10.44am.
POTUS wore a dark suit, white shirt and striped tie. He approached reporters at Fort McNair and said: "I have one comment to make before I start the day."
Stopping and removing his sunglasses, POTUS said: "You may remember I got criticised for calling Putin a war criminal. Well, the truth of the matter – we saw it happen in Bucha – this warrants him – he is a war criminal.
"But we have to gather the information. We have to continue to provide Ukraine with the weapons they need to continue to fight and we have to get all the detail so this could be – actual have a war crimes trial. This guy is brutal and what's happening in Bucha is outrageous and everyone's seen it."
Asked if he thinks it is genocide, POTUS replied: "No, I think it is a war crime."
Asked if he will impose more sanctions on Russia, POTUS replied: "I'm seeking more sanctions, yes."
POTUS said of Putin: "He should be held accountable."
POTUS added: "I'm going to continue to add sanctions. Thank you."
Asked for details, POTUS, walking away, turned and said: "I'll let you know."
POTUS then climbed inside his limousine.
A lunch lid was called until 1pm.
From the White House:
'At arrival, the President was greeted at Fort McNair by COL David Bowling, Garrison Commander of Joint Base Myer Henderson Hall.'
From the White House:
'Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs Jake Sullivan will be joining Press Secretary Jen Psaki at the daily press briefing today.'
Pool and pre-credentialed media are gathering at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS's remarks about progress made on the Administration's Trucking Action Plan to strengthen the nation's supply chains.
About a hundred people are sitting on white seats on the south lawn, facing at an angle towards the Oval Office. Two Mack truck cabins are parked behind the presidential lectern near the Rose Garden. A complete truck with a Stars and Stripes design is parked in front of the South Portico. The Marine Band, some distance behind the audience, is playing music.
POTUS's remarks will be live streamed here:
POTUS walked from the Oval Office at 1.53pm, reached the lectern and gestured to people to sit down. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg began speaking first.
Live stream here:
From the White House:
'
Department of Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg
Congressman Patrick Murphy (former), Chair, Veterans Trucking Task Force
Maria Rodriguez, NFI
Sen. Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4th)
Rep. Lauren Underwood (IL-14th)
Roman, Maria Rodriguez's 3.5-year old son
Lola Thomas-Albright, Nussbaum Transportation
Teddy Butler, ABF Freight Systems
Nancy Chao and Nicky Sornkatetin, Quality 1 Trucking
Representatives from trade organizations
Representatives from labor organizations
Truck drivers
Members of trucking companies
Secretary Pete Buttigieg
Congressman Patrick Murphy (former)
Maria Rodriguez
The President
POTUS finished speaking at 2.20pm. He talked about the economy and the importance of truckers and mentioned: "I used to drive a truck. It's a long story." He did not reference Ukraine.
Playback available here:
After the event, POTUS spent 25 minutes chatting to guests and posing for photos.
He then walked up to a khaki-patterned truck cabin, climbed up, peered inside and stepped down again.
Several questions were shouted by reporters from afar including one about whether the Pope should visit Kyiv. POTUS stopped on his way to the Oval Office and replied: "For his safety, whatever he can do. He's a fine, fine man."
The press briefing with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Press Secretary Jen Psaki began at 3.06pm.
Live stream here:
The press briefing ended at 4.14pm. Playback available here:
A travel/ photo lid was called at 4.55pm
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Pool joined up with the motorcade as it left POTUS' neighborhood at about 9:16 a.m.
We are rolling to Delaware Air National Guard Base.
The motorcade arrived at DANG at about 9:24 a.m.
On the drive to DANG, we passed a billboard with a PETA "Build Back Kinder" ad that appeared to show Biden holding a bunny.
Pool watched from a distance as POTUS boarded Marine 1.
We were loaded into Osprey before he took off.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President to Fort McNair on Marine One: