Today, in concert with his supplemental request to Congress to support Ukraine, President Biden will send a proposal for a comprehensive legislative package that will enhance the United States Government's authority to hold the Russian government and Russian oligarchs accountable for President Putin's war against Ukraine. The proposals were crafted in close consultation with interagency partners, including the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Justice, the Department of State, and the Department of Commerce. The Biden Administration looks forward to working closely with Members of Congress as a whole to implement this package of proposals.
This package of proposals will establish new authorities for the forfeiture of property linked to Russian kleptocracy, allow the government to use the proceeds to support Ukraine, and further strengthen related law enforcement tools.
 This proposal aims to streamline the process for seizure of oligarch assets, expand the assets subject to seizure, and enable the proceeds to flow to Ukraine. It would:
 This proposal would improve the United States' ability to use forfeited oligarch funds to remediate harms caused to Ukraine by Russian aggression. Under the proposal, the Departments of Justice, Treasury, and State will work together to use forfeited funds related to corruption, sanctions and export control violations, and other specified offenses to remediate harms of Russian aggression toward Ukraine.
This proposal would allow for the forfeiture of property that Russian oligarchs use to facilitate the evasion of sanctions. Under current law, the United States can forfeit the proceeds of sanctions violations, but it cannot forfeit property used to facilitate sanctions violations. This proposal closes that gap.
 This proposal would strengthen the United States' ability to investigate and prosecute sanctions evasion by adding the crime of sanctions evasion to the definition of "racketeering activity" in the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act. This proposal would give the Department of Justice a powerful forfeiture tool used against racketeering enterprises to dismantle organizations that enable violations of U.S. sanctions.
 This proposal would improve the United States' ability to pursue money laundering prosecutions (and post-conviction forfeitures) based on foreign offenses by extending the statute of limitations from five years to ten years. Criminal investigations of oligarchs can be complicated because sophisticated criminals use intricate schemes that may cut across multiple jurisdictions. The United States often works with international partners on these cases. Extending the statute of limitations would provide additional time for investigators and prosecutors to hold oligarchs criminally accountable.
This proposal would improve the United States' ability to work with international partners to recover assets linked to foreign corruption. This proposal would make several amendments to improve our ability to enforce foreign restraint and forfeiture orders in the United States.