Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House.
I'll be your VP print pooler today. Please reach out directly with any questions: 917-331-2010.
Pool is gathering ahead of the VP's event at Thomas Elementary School in Washington DC.
The VP will deliver remarks about the administration's plans to upgrade public schools with clean energy efficient facilities and transportation.
Full fact sheet available here: 
The press vans have left the White House en route to Thomas Elementary School in northeast Washington DC.
VP is due to address the event at 5.20pm. Her remarks will be live streamed here: 
Pool is gathered in a classroom with five young students of Thomas elementary school awaiting VP.
A colored-in message on the white board reads: Welcome VP Harris.
The new HVAC systems the VP is promoting have been fitted in the classroom. These particular units were installed during a refurbishment a couple of years ago.
The young students are sat at desks in a circle. They say they are very "excited" to meet with the VP.
VP entered the classroom alongside Thomas Elementary School's principal Jaimee Trahan and fist-bumped the students.
The students are between 2nd and 4th grade.
VP is wearing a charcoal suit and what appeared to be a dark colored blouse.
She sat down and told the children she was excited to discuss "the issues of the day" with them.
VP told the children: "you guys are learning so much and I want you to tell me what you can teach me about what's going on".
Next, VP admired murals in the hallways created by local artists. Principal Trahan said the murals' subjects were selected to be "culturally relevant" to their students.
VP entered a second classroom where she was joined by Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm and climate advisor Gina McCarthy.
VP told the children: "I just wanted to come visit with our young leaders.
"I've been hearing so much about you and how smart you are and how hard you're working. and I just wanted to come by and visit with you."
VP added: "The President and I and all of the members who are leaders in the country we are counting on you guys to keep doing what you're doing. And you're the reason we do what we do."
The children introduced themselves to the VP in turn and discussed the assignment they are working on.
One child told VP: "I heard that you and Joe Biden are partners" to laughter from the group.
VP responded: "We are. He's the President and I'm the Vice President, but these are our partners too" indicating Mr Cardona, Ms Granholm and Ms McCarthy. She then outlined their roles to the students.
Today's program is now underway in the school hall.
Ahead of VP's remarks, a White House official sends the below on background:
Please also find more details about VP's visit today, on background from a White House official:
The Vice President met with students between 2nd and 4th grade in the Thomas Elementary School Art room. She was escorted by Thomas Elementary school principal Jaimee Trahan.
The remarks program is below.
VP's remarks are underway. A reminder that remarks are being live streamed.
VP told the audience "I love our educators" to applause. She shared an anecdote about her first grade teacher attending her Law School graduation as she praised the impact of educators on her life.
"There are many things that contributed to me being here at this very moment as vice president" she said as she thanked educators.
As she outlined the administration's announcement today on investing in energy upgrades, VP said repairs and upgrades to schools' heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems are important for students to be able to concentrate and to perform year round.
She gave the example of a school in St Paul, Minnesota, which she was told had to pass out wet towels and water bottles in the days before summer break because classroom temperatures were pushing 100 degrees. She said a dozen students had to be sent to the nurse's office.
VP concluded by saying "as we take on the challenges of the future, I'm looking at our students: we need your help…. We are counting on you".
VP then greeted a dozen or so students who were stood behind her on stage. Your pooler does not have their ages or any detail on how they were selected.
Event has concluded and pool was swiftly ushered back into the press vans.