Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
I'll be your in-town pooler for today. We're scheduled to gather at 11:40am to head out for President Biden's appearance at the North America's Building Trades Unions legislative conference here in D.C. Below is today's White House schedule. Both of the president's public events today will be streamed live at 
 but I'll be sure to send color. I'll also let you know of any schedule updates.
Feel free to reach out with any questions.
President Biden emerged from the Oval Office with a couple staffers at 12:32pm and got into the Beast. We are rolling to the Washington Hilton.
Of note: Pool spotted staff playing with first dog Commander near the residence. I can confirm Commander looks like he has grown quite a bit.
From the White House --
Traveling with the President to the Washington Hilton:
The motorcade arrived at the Washington Hilton at 12:39p.m. Pool did not see President Biden enter the hotel.
We are now set up in a ballroom inside the hotel. There are hundreds of guests here packed together, some seated and some standing and mingling. Minimal mask usage.
The president is expected to speak shortly and his remarks will be streamed here: 
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the North America's Building Trades Unions (NABTU) 2022 Legislative Conference:
President Sean McGarvey
The President
President Biden walked out at 12:57pm and shook some of the attendees' hands. He received loud cheers when he entered and stepped up to the podium.
Remarks streaming live on the White House website. 
Also, the last pool report should have been #4, not #5. Apologies.
Biden wrapped his remarks around 1:30pm.
Some color -
Biden received loud applause and a standing ovation during his remarks at the top of the speech on Russia. When the president said "Amazon, here we come," he also received loud cheers and a standing ovation. Biden also received a few standing ovations and loud applause when he talked about the need for the wealthy to "pay their fair share" in taxes. He also prompted laughs among the audience when he talked about "the last guy."
Also, another correction - I seem to also have duplicated pool report #3, so the correct number of this report should be #7. Apologies!
Motorcade is rolling back to the White House as of 1:42pm. Pool did not see President Biden get into the Beast.
Also, there's a protest taking place near the hotel, but your pooler could not make out what the demonstrators were shouting.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 1:48pm. Biden walked to the Oval Office accompanied by an aide who I believe was Cedric Richmond.
The briefing is now going to start at 3pm, per the White House.
We have a two-minute warning for the briefing with Jen Psaki.
Streaming at: 
The briefing is over and the pool is now in the State Dining Room for the bill signing. Dozens of guests here seated in chairs. A few but not many wearing masks. A band is playing music outside the room.
This is slated to begin at 4:15 and will be streamed.
The White House passed the following along:
"As a follow-up to an earlier briefing question, the President was last tested for COVID-19 on Monday, April 4th. He tested negative."
Also, your pooler spotted several lawmakers at this event including Sens. Portman, Peters, Carper, Majority Leader Hoyer, Reps. Peter Welch and Jackie Speier.
Biden walked in the room around 4:25pm. He'll speak momentarily.
Some other color on attendees -
Majority Whip James Clyburn entered the room shortly after I sent the last pool note. He and Sen. Portman chatted for a few minutes before the event started.
Also at the event - Cedric Richmond, who was one of a handful of people masked. Your pooler also spotted Louisa Terrell. Senate Majority Leader Schumer entered the room just before the event began.
Biden signed the bill at 4:38pm after concluding his remarks. He continues to speak and take photos with various guests.
Speaker Pelosi, Sen. Tillis, AOC, Rep. Rashida Tlaib were also among the lawmakers here. It looked like AOC mingled with POTUS briefly but a large crowd obstructed my view. Pool saw Biden take a photo with Rep. Tlaib.
Your pooler spotted Postmaster Louis DeJoy among the guests but has not seen him interact with Biden. We are still in the room.
Fuller list of attendees from the White House -
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (MD-6)
Majority Whip Jim Clyburn (SC-6)
Senator Gary Peters (MI), Chair of Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee
Senator Rob Portman (OH), Ranking Member of Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
Senator Thom Tillis (NC)
Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12)
Representative James Comer (KY-01)
Annette Taylor - Introducer
Rep Stephen Lynch (MA-08)
Rep Brenda Lawrence (MI-04)
Rep Gerry Connolly (VA-11)
Senator Steve Daines (MT)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Representative Peter Welch (VT)
Representative Rashida Tlaib (MI-13)
Representative Jackie Speier (CA-14)
Representative John Sarbanes (MD-3)
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)
Representative Richie Neal (MA-1)
Representative Stephen Lynch (MA-8)
Representative Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)
Representative Jake LaTurner (KS-2)8)
Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-8)
Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17)
Representative Robin Kelly (IL-2)
Representative Hank Johnson (GA-4)
Representative Sara Jacobs (CA-53)
Representative Jimmy Gomez (CA-34)
Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11)
Representative Peter DeFazio (OR-4)
Representative Danny Davis (IL-7)
Representative Shontel Brown (OH-11)
Representatives from the postal service organizations and labor organizations
As the event wound down, Biden was asked if he's worried about a resurgence of COVID-19.
"Need to fund the Covid bill," he replied, adding that the U.S. needs to be prepared for anything.
We have a travel/photo lid at 5:13pm.
One more note - I believe I caught a brief sighting of the first cat, Willow, being carried by a staffer as we exited the White House.
Enjoy your evening, all.