Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from Washington, where it is unseasonably cold.
An update from the White House:
This morning, the President tested negative for COVID as a part of his regular testing cadence.
The call time for the pool is 2p; you’ll hear more from me then.
﻿Hello again from your pooler.
Here are some details from the White House about this afternoon (POTUS is scheduled to deliver remarks on the budget at 2:45 in the State Dining Room):
After his remarks on the budget, the President will take a few questions from reporters in attendance. Following his remarks, Budget Director Shalanda Young and CEA Director Cecelia Rouse will conduct an on-camera briefing on the budget.
Hello from the White House, where your pooler has been tested for COVID.
We've been told to gather at the Palm Room doors at 2:35, ahead of POTUS remarks on the budget in the State Dining Room at 2:45.
A two-minute warning before POTUS' remarks on the budget in the State Dining Room came at 2:55.
President Biden and OMB Director Shalanda Young entered the State Dining Room at 2:57 pm. Young introduced the president as he looked on. POTUS stepped to the podium at 2:58p, remarking that it had "been a busy couple days."
The remarks are being live-streamed 
.
There were four rows of gold-painted chairs set up for the press in front of the podium, and six flags -- alternating between the American flag and the presidential seal -- arrayed behind the president and Director Young.
POTUS completed his prepared statement about his budget at 3:10p. He is now taking questions. All of this is being livestreamed 
, but here are a few highlights from ongoing questions.
In response to a question about his remarks on Putin on Saturday, POTUS said:
"I'm not walking anything back. The fact of the matter is I was expressing the moral outrage that I felt... I wasn't then nor am I now expressing a policy change."
"If he continues on this course that he's on, he's going to become a pariah worldwide."
Another reporter asked if he was concerned his remarks would escalate the conflict. POTUS said that he is not.
As always, please check quotes against the WH transcript.
POTUS left the podium at 3:23 pm.
POTUS said the only thing worse than an intended war is an unintended war, and that "nobody believes I was talking about taking down" Putin.
"The last thing I want to do is engage in a land war, a nuclear war with Russia."
"People like this shouldn't be ruling countries, but they do."
Pressed on whether he would meet with Putin, POTUS said, "it depends on what he wants to talk about."
Again, check quotes against transcript!
[
]
We got a two minute warning for the briefing at 3:52.
Briefing began at 3:54. It's live-streaming 
. Andrew Bates is at the podium; OMB Director Shalanda Young and CEA Chair Cecilia Rouse are waiting to speak.
The briefing ended at 4:16pm.
Asked why National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan wasn't part of today's briefing, as the guidance sent last night indicated, a White House official said that when they sent out today's pool note, they knew POTUS would be taking questions and speaking to his trip to Europe, Ukraine and Russia himself.
Hi all,
A travel/photo lid was called at 4:57 pm. Have a good evening!