Pool Reports by 
, 
AF1 landed at 12:44 AM at JBA
The president exited at 12:55 and then walked over to Marine One.
M1 took off at 1:02
Handing off to the in town pool now.
It was a pleasure being your pooler for this eventful day in Warsaw.
Many thanks to copooler Geoff Earle (Daily Mail)
Sharing this from the WH
Traveling with the President on Marine One to the White House:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening. Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 1:13am EST. President Biden, not wearing a tie, walked across the lawn and waved to press. He didn't answer any shouted questions, but did appear to greet a Secret Service officer.
Upon listening back to the remarks, President Biden told the press pool to go on home, "it's late."
The White House called a lid at 1:21am EST.
That's it from me. Happy Sunday!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from your Sunday print pooler.
Pool call time is now 3 p.m., per the White House press office.
The pool call time is now 4:45 p.m., per the White House press office.
The pool is gathering as of 5 p.m. for an unannounced movement.
The president's motorcade is rolling from the South Lawn as of 5:21 p.m.
Pool did not see president before departing in our van with the rest of the motorcade.
The pool has arrived at church in Georgetown as of 5:31 p.m.
Print pooler did not see the president but a nearby wire reporter spotted the top of his head as he went inside.
Pool is holding outside church.
POTUS walked out of church at 6:26 p.m. A reporter shouted a question, rough transcript below. Pool and motorcade are rolling at 6:29 p.m.
Q: Mr. President, were you calling for regime change?
POTUS: No.
Motorcade pulled up to the White House at 6:36 p.m. Pooler didn't see POTUS exit his vehicle.
The White House press office called a travel/photo lid at 6:39 p.m.
Here is exact transcript of exchange outside church. Thank you to TV pool for playing back recording.
Reporter Q: Mr. President, do you want Putin removed? Mr. President, were you calling for regime change?
POTUS: No.