Pool Reports by 
, 
From the press office:
President Biden will speak with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine today at 10:45 AM EDT to discuss our continued support for Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression.
From the press office:
Today, following his remarks on the status of the country's fight against COVID-19, the President will receive his second COVID-19 booster shot. The shot will be administered by a member of the White House Medical Unit.
From the press office:
President Biden's call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy was convened at 11:08 EDT.
From the press office:
President Biden's secure call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy was completed at 12:03 PM EDT.
From the press office:
The second booster shot this afternoon will be Pfizer.
Two-minute warning for POTUS remarks on COVID in South Court Auditorium.
Livestream can be viewed here:
POTUS took the stage in the South Court Auditorium of EEOB at 1:40 pm for remarks on the nation's fight against COVID-19. He came in wearing a black mask, which he took off before speaking.
The livestream can be viewed here:
Remarks on COVID efforts concluded at 1:47 pm.
POTUS rolled up his sleeve for his second booster shot, a Pfizer, at 1:48 pm. While he was getting his shot, pool shouted questions - including how it felt. Topics included title 42, Zelensky call, and declassified intel indicating Putin does not trust his military leaders (to which he said no).
Pool is efforting to find out who administered the shot.
"It didn't hurt a bit," he said.
He walked out at 1:50.
The woman who administered POTUS's booster shot is a member of the White House Medical Unit, acc to the press office.
[
]
with WH Communications Director Kate Bedingfield.
"Thanks for having me back," she began.
at 3:26 pm
Guidance from press office issued at 4:44 pm:
Lid with exception for house members at stakeout location at 5:45 and 6:45.
Sharing this info provided by the New Democrat Coalition:
— 
 New Democrat Coalition Chair Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Vice Chairs Scott Peters (CA-52), Ami Bera (CA-07), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Sharice Davids (KS-03) will meet with senior administration officials at the White House to discuss the Coalition's legislative agenda and the Democratic strategy for the rest of the year. The meeting is closed press.
, there will be a media availability at the White House with credentialed press.
At 5:47 pm, the press office sent this message:
2 min warning to stakeout
From the press office:
Today at 4:45 the President met with the New Democrat Coalition. In attendance was:
Representative Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01), Chair
Representative Ami Bera (D-CA-07), Vice-Chair for Outreach
Representative Sharice Davids (D-KS-03), Vice-Chair for Member Services
Representative Ann Kuster (D-NH-02), Vice-Chair for Communications
Representative Scott Peters (D-CA-52), Vice-Chair for Policy
Cecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Shalanda Young, Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Ali Zaidi, Deputy National Climate Advisor
At 6:15 he will meet with the Congressional Progressive Caucus. In attendance will be:
Representative Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-07), Chair
Representative Katie Porter (D-CA-45), Deputy Chair
Representative Ilhan Omar (D-MN-05), Whip
Representative Mark Pocan (D-WI-02), Chair Emeritus
Representative Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ-03), Chair Emeritus (t)
Representative Barbara Lee (D-CA-13), Chair Emeritus
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Gautam Raghavan, Director of Office of Presidential Personnel
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President and Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Ali Zaidi , Deputy National Climate Advisor