Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. I will be your pooler today.
The WH shares this:
This morning, President Biden will drop by a meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
Your pool has gathered as of 10:47 at the Marriott Hotel in Warsaw ahead of a busy day for Biden.
We are being swept and we have been tested for Covid.
It’s cloudy and we have 54 degrees.
Herewith the WH guidance in case useful.
Please note, as mentioned in my first report, that this morning the president will also drop by a meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov.
As always feel free to reach out if you have questions
In the afternoon, the President will participate in an arrival ceremony with President of Poland Andrzej Duda at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw, Poland. This will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Then, the President will hold a bilateral meeting with President of Poland Andrzej Duda at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw. The President will discuss how the United States, alongside our Allies and partners, is responding to the humanitarian and human rights crisis that Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine has created. This meeting will have a pool spray.
After, the President will meet with refugees at PGE Narodowy Stadium in Warsaw, Poland. He will engage with Mayor of Warsaw Rafał Trzaskowski to learn about assistance and services the city is providing to Ukrainians who have fled Putin’s war of choice, and with nongovernmental providers of humanitarian services, such as World Central Kitchen. Prime Minister of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki will attend. This visit will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
In the evening, the President will deliver remarks on the united efforts of the free world to support the people of Ukraine, hold Russia accountable for its brutal war, and defend a future that is rooted in democratic principles. These remarks at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, Poland will be open to pre-credentialed media.
Later, the President will return to Washington, DC. The departure from Warsaw Chopin Airport will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival and departure at Royal Air Force Mildenhall, where Air Force One will refuel, will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be covered by the out-of-town pool. The arrival on the South Lawn will be open press and pooled for TV.
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: CBS
Print: AFP
Radio: VOA
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: CNN
Print: Axios
Radio: AP
The President has no public events scheduled.
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: FOX
Print: BNA
Radio: AURN
Per the WH the meeting between Secretaries Blinken and Austin and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov started at 10:41 AM CET
At 11:40 your pool entered a conference room of the Marriott Hotel.
The president was seated at a long white table between Secretaries Blinken and Austin, facing Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov
All were wearing masks.
There were Ukrainian and American flags in the background, and other officials also in attendance.
When we entered Kuleba was telling the president how he learned how to sleep "under any conditions" during the war. Biden also spoke about sleep but it was difficult to hear.
Pool was rushed out at 11:42 and is now holding in a van outside the hotel. 
After listening to a better audio, it appears Kuleba was not specifically speaking about sleep in war conditions, but more generally about sleep and traveling.
Biden shared his own experience: "You're looking at a fella who's traveled over a million 200,000 miles"
"I learned how to sleep"
Thanks to copooler Geoff Earle (Daily Mail) for these quotes and to VOA Anita Powell who shared her audio.
Pool still holding as of 12:05 AM.
The WH also shared this list of participants:
President of the United States of America
U.S. Secretary of State
U.S. Secretary of Defense
National Security Advisor of the United States
U.S. Chargé d'affaires ad interim to Ukraine
NSC Senior Director for European Affairs
Deputy Chief of Staff, U.S. Department of State
Chief of Staff, U.S. Department of Defense
Senior Military Assistant
Foreign Minister of Ukraine
Defense Minister of Ukraine
Ukrainian Ambassador to Poland
Chief of Staff, Ukraine Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Media Advisor
The motorcade started rolling at 12:27 AM.
Your pooler did not spot the president.
Also the WH shares this:
The President’s drop-by at the meeting began 
 and ended 
The motorcade arrived at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw around 12:33 AM.
The ride was short and uneventful. The street leading to the Palace was lined with Polish and Ukrainian flags. Many onlookers taking pictures.
The Beast rolled at 12:37 AM into the courtyard of the Palace for the ceremony of arrival.
Members of the Polish forces representing different branches of the military including Navy and in ceremonial uniforms were waiting.
President Duda went out at 12:37 to greet Biden.
The President then shook hands with Polish officials, we saw him briefly put his hand on Duda's shoulder.
The two presidents then greeted the US delegation, detailed list below.
A military band played the national anthem followed by the Polish one. Biden put his hand on his heart.
Duda and Biden then proceeded to review the troops.
At one point some of the servicemen shouted in Polish "Hail to the president" according to the translation of an employee of the US embassy
The band followed by the other servicemen then left.
Duda and Biden went in at 12:47 AM.
Pool now holding inside.
Attendees at the arrival ceremony per the WH
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Mark Brzezinski, U.S. Ambassador to Poland
T.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
T.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe
Ms. Robin Brooks, Director for the Balkans and Central Europe
H.E. Zbigniew Rau, Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National Defense
H.E. Piotr Naimski, Deputy Minister of Economy
Mr. Jakub Kumoch, Head of International Policy Bureau
Mr. Pawel Soloch, Head of National Security Bureau
H.E. Marek Magierowski, Ambassador of Poland to US Mr. Piotr Gillert, Director of International Policy Bureau
At 1:37 PM your pool is still holding at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw where Biden is having a restricted bilateral meeting with his Polish counterpart.
Per the WH, participating in this meeting:
The President
President Andrzej Duda, Poland
Mr. Jakub Kumoch, Head of International Policy Bureau
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
At 1:46 AM your pool entered the room with high ceilings and pillars where the expanded meeting was taking place.
The officials were sitting around a long table under a quite monumental chandelier.
Numerous US and Polish flags against the walls.
Duda spoke first in Polish and then Biden.
Here some rough quotes
POTUS said that Artice 5 is a "sacred commitment" for the United States
He said both countries need to stay in "constant contact"
Biden also said that Putin was
"counting on a divided Nato" but that did not happen
Repeating that the US take article 5 "as a sacred obligation" he added : "You can count on that" and "For your freedom and ours"
Mentioning the Ukrainian refugees Biden said it reminded him of the situation at the Southern Border
Duda per translator said "Relations are flourishing" between the two countries and that Poland is a "serious" ally
He thanked the president for his visit and said the bond between Poland and the U.S. is "strengthened immensely by your visit"
He mentioned the "great sense of threat" the Poles are feeling
Please check against transcript.
As of 2:11 pm the pool is holding outside the Presidential Palace
At 2:36 PM the motorcade started rolling.
We are en route to the PGE Narodowy Stadium in Warsaw where Biden, per guidance, will meet with refugees, Polish officials and nongovernmental providers of humanitarian services, such as World Central Kitchen.
We arrived at PGE Narodowy Stadium at 2:45 PM.
At 2:51 POTUS came out and walked down a flight of stairs to a courtyard where food trucks were parked next to tents from the World Central Kitchen NGO.
He chatted briefly with Chef José Andrés.
We saw Biden chat first with various people next to a donut food truck but the pool was kept at a distance and could not hear him.
According to the WH he interacted with Ukrainian refugees and with helpers.
The president was wearing a suit, no tie and a cap. He had a mask on as did the people around him.
He stopped for a moment under a tent where there was a grill.
Biden then stopped in a corner of the courtyard where families were gathered around tables, with plates of food and bottles of water. Your pooler saw fries and sausages, donuts and hamburgers.
We saw him talking to people that your pooler assumed are refugees. He had a translator with him.
At one moment the president picked up a little girl wearing a pink jacket and held her in his arms for a few moments.
Shortly after he stopped to talk to reporters.
He said Vladimir Putin was "a butcher" and that he had just met people from Mariupol.
Your pooler will get more quotes asap.
The pool left around 3:30 pm
Per the WH
Rafał Trzaskowski, Mayor of Warsaw
Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of Poland, greeted the president
With him President at the World Central Kitchen Food Distribution Site
Rafał Trzaskowski, Mayor of Warsaw
José Andrés, Chair Emeritus, Think Food Group
Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of Poland
Mark Brzezinski, Ambassador of the U.S. to Poland
Secretary Tony Blinken, U.S. Department of State Administrator Samantha Power, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Moderator
Elyssa Kaplan, Culinary Operations Manager, World Central Kitchen Relief Team
Cathy Kossack, Chef Lead, World Central Kitchen
Volunteers with World Central Kitchen
Ukrainian refugees
Here is a link
At 3:40 pm we are rolling.
We have a lunch lid until 4:45 pm CET
Pool is holding at the Marriott
Here are a few belated quotes in case useful, please check against transcript.
The president stopped as he was leaving after having spent some time with Ukrainian refugees.
Asked whether he thinks Russia has changed its strategy, he said "I am not sure they have"
He then said he was "always surprised" with "the depth and strength of the human spirit"
"See all those little children?" he asked
"It just makes you so damn proud. They are wonderful, wonderful, wonderful"
"Each one of those children said … say a prayer for my dad, for my grandfather, for my brother" who is "back there fighting"
"I remember what it is like when you have someone in a war zone"
"Every morning you get up and you wonder … You pray you don't get that phone call"
"There are an amazing group of people"
"I met two people from Mariupol. It's astounding"
About Putin: "He is a butcher. That's what it makes me feel."
Pool is holding in a van, waiting to depart for the Royal Castle where Potus will deliver remarks.
While we are waiting the WH shares this:
In attendance for the President’s remarks at the Royal Castle in Warsaw:
[
]
[
]
Remarks concluded at 6:43 pm
The motorcade left the Royal Castle, lit up in white, red, blue and yelllow, the colors of Poland and Ukraine, at 7:25 PM.
Next stop is the Warsaw Chopin Airport.
Also the WH shares more on the audience at the President’s remarks:
The audience was composed of senior Polish officials including the leaders of the government, members of parliament, NGO and business leaders, the diplomatic community, and university students (many the alumni of US exchange programs), and the US Embassy community.
Sharing this from a WH official:
"The President's point was that Putin cannot be allowed to exercise power over his neighbors or the region. He was not discussing Putin's power in Russia, or regime change."
At 8:41 PM local time (please note the different time zone) Air Force One landed at Royal Air Force Mildenhall (UK) where it will refuel.
Sharing this bit of information related to the departure from Warsaw.
Greeting the President upon departure from Warsaw Chopin Airport:
Traveling with the President en route Joint Base Andrews on Air Force One:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Yohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary of the NSC
Rob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Emily Horne, Special Assistant to the President & Sr Director for Press and NSC Spokesperson
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Neera Tanden, Staff Secretary and Senior Advisor to the President
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol of the U.S.
Per the WH
The President invited the following servicemembers on Air Force One during a refuel stop at Royal Air Force Mildenhall.
At 9:43 local time Air Force One is about to take off after refueling.
Next stop JBA