Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. I'll be your in-town pooler for today. Your pooler has been COVID tested, and pool + pre-credentialed media are gathering ahead of the president's remarks on the March jobs report.
The schedule remains the same as of now, and is pasted below:
RSVP here
April Fool's, Gather time has been pushed back (to an unknown time)
Pool is gathering now for POTUS remarks.
Two-minute warning for POTUS remarks at 10:53. They'll be live streamed, but I'll provide color when necessary:
POTUS took the podium at 10:56am and left at 11:04 without answering shouted questions from reporters. He said there'd be "plenty of time to answer questions about other items" next week.
The president vowed to continue creating jobs and brought up the billionaire minimum tax, his efforts to increase US oil supply and more during his remarks.
We have a lunch lid until 2pm.
Per the press office:
CEA Member Jared Bernstein will join Press Secretary Jen Psaki at the podium today.
Two-minute warning for the press briefing at 2:39, which will be available to watch here: 
Briefing ended at 3:24 and we are gathering now for POTUS departure.
POTUS was already outside when pool arrived. He was taking photos, chatting and shaking hands with a number of people directly across from us.
He shook hands for a few minutes, slowly getting further and further away from reporters, and eventually waved at the pool as he walked towards M1. POTUS did not come over for questions.
He boarded at 3:28 and took off at 3:32.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President to JBA on Marine One:
As I should have noted in previous email, I'm handing off to out of town pool now. Have a great weekend.
From WH:
Correction: The President will be travelling to
 not JBA.
And with that, I'm actually handing over pool duties.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good (late) afternoon from a very windy Delaware Air National Guard Base.
I'm your out-of-town pooler for the weekend.
Marine One touched down at 4:15 p.m. The president entered the motorcade at a distance from the pool. No remarks.
The motorcade is now rolling at 4:23 p.m.
The motorcade dropped POTUS off at his residence at about 4:35 p.m.
A family with a Biden sign in their yard waved at the motorcade shortly before the drop off.
A lid was called at 4:37 p.m.
Pool is headed to hotel.