Pool Reports by 
, 
Buenas Tardes from the White House...
2-minute warning for the briefing called at 12:51p.m.
Briefing will be followed by POTUS's meeting with Colombian President Iván Duque Márquez
The briefing wrapped up at 1:41pm
Pool is gathering for POTUS's meeting with Colombian President Duque.
Pool escorted into Cabinet Room at 2:30pm after holding in hallway for 45+ mins. Escorted out at 2:45pm. POTUS did not respond to shouted questions.
Meeting attendees at bottom of email via WH press office. Will send cleaner quotes shortly.
POTUS noted at top that President Duque knew his late son Beau
List below of all attendees. POTUS and u.S officials sat on one side of conference table across Colombian officials.
POTUS:"Colombia is the lynchpin."
Thanked Duque for condemning attacks on Ukraine
Listed details of what the US has done to support Ukraine.
"The united States and people around the world are going to continue to support the Ukrainian"
"Colombia is the keystone"...to developing prosperity in the region
"our hemisphere's migration challenges cannot be solved by one" nation, Biden said.
Potus said reLationship between both countries is critical to "Regional security and prosperity."
Duque: Thanked Biden, and celebrated 200 years of bilateral relations between both countries
Duque said "we appreciate a lot the decision to designate colombia a primary non-NATO ally"
Said at next summit of the Americas will be a venue to "embrace the cause of Build Back Better"
Duque on Russia's attack on Ukraine: "This has been a very horrifying moment for the world"
"Nothing justifies the bloodbath"
***
Participating in the President's bilateral meeting with Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia:
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
T.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
T.H. Philip Goldberg, U.S. Ambassador to Colombia
T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
T.H. Katie Tobin, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Transborder Security
His Excellency Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia
H.E. Marta Lucía Ramírez, Vice President and Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Juan Carlos Pinzón, Ambassador of Colombia to the United States
Ms. Maria Paula Correa, Chief of Staff of the President
H.E. Diego Molano, Minister of Defense
H.E. Maria Ximena Lombana, Minister of Commerce
H.E. Carlos Eduardo Correa, Minister of Environment
"I've said for a long time Colombia is a keystone to our shared efforts to build a hemisphere as prosperous, secure and democratic."
"Today I'm proud to announce that I intend to designate Colombia a major non-NATO ally…that's exactly what you are."
"This is a recognition of the unique and close relationship between our countries."
"Our hemisphere migration challenges cannot be solved by one nation or any one border. We have to work together."
"Our goal is to sign a regional declaration of migration protection in June in Los Angeles when the United States hosts the Summit of the Americas. And this can't be a piecemeal approach."
Speaking of plan Biden said: "It needs to dramatically expand access to resettlement and other legal pathways to legal immigration It needs to aggressively pursue criminal smuggling and traffickers who trade for …profit."
As always please check against official transcript once it's released.
Lunch Lid just announced...
As a reminder, POTUS has the following event this evening...
Motorcade started rolling at 6:41pm Via the White House Press Office:
Traveling with the President to the Democratic National Committee Winter Meeting from the White House:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Erin Wilson, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Motorcade arrived af Washington Hilton at 6:47pm
POTUS took the stage at 7:27p.m. Crowd chanted "Joe. Joe. Joe."
The majority of audience on hand wore masks.
DNC Chairman Jaime Harrison spoke before POTUS "We are back together because Democrats delivered."
Loud cheers when Harrison noted SCOTUS Nominee
"We're about to put the first Black woman on the Supreme Court. Why? Because Democrats delivered"
Harrison on GOP
"What's the GOP Plan? How will they bring down costs and address the needs of regular people?" Said they are "too busy taking away your reproductive freedoms…too busy attacking trans and queer kids. Too busy telling teachers what history they're not allowed to teach."
On Biden
"President Biden is a man who gets things done."
"He's helped folks know that it's going to be ok. He's a steady presence even in our toughest times."
via White House Press Office:
Approximately 415 members of the Democratic National Committee are in attendance for the President's remarks at the Democratic National Committee Winter Meeting.
Speaking program:
Chair Jaime Harrison, Democratic National Committee
The President
POTUS ended his remarks at 7:51pm.
Some color perhaps not visible from livestream:
POTUS received a standing ovation when he spoke about job creation, and later when he spoke about reducing prescription drug prices, also at the end of his remarks.
At one point he spotted a toddler boy in the audience, whose mother had placed the boy atop a table to see the president speak. POTUS from the stage asked to meet with the family. The mother and her boy were escorted backstage to meet with POTUS.
Motorcade departed Washington Hilton at 8pm and arrived at the White House at 8:06pm. A lid was declared at 8:06pm.
To all a good night...
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon,
I will be your foreign pooler today for the work visit of Colombia's President Ivan Duque. This will be the first bilateral meeting President Biden will have with his Colombia counterpart since he took office. President Duque arrives in Washington five months before leaving office. The two leaders are also meeting to commemorate the 200 years of diplomatic relations between the two nations.
The White House guidance says POTUS will welcome President Duque and the rest of the Colombia delegation in the Cabinet Room. Your pooler asked whether a one-on-one will happen in the Oval Office, as is usually the case with visiting heads of State. White House confirmed that POTUS will greet President Duque in the Oval.
The Colombia delegation also includes Vice President and Foreign Minister Marta Lucía Ramírez; ambassador to the United States, Juan Carlos Pinzón; Chief of Staff María Paula Correa; Minister of Defense, Diego Molano; Minister of Commerce, Industry and Tourism María Ximena Lombana; Minister of Environment and sustainable Development, Carlos Eduardo Correa.
Your pooler has asked for the list of names who will be in the bilateral meeting representing the US Government but has not received it yet. I will share it with you as soon as the White House shares it.
Among the topics that will be discussed are the following:
-Defense of the democratic values in the Western Hemisphere
-Counterterrorism cooperation
-Regional Immigration and legal paths for immigrants
-Climate Change
-Energy transition
-Economic recovery
-Pandemic
-Colombia peace deal
President Duque has been one of the most vocal critics in the region against Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro and the fact that a US delegation met with Maduro in Caracas last weekend will most likely be added to the meeting's agenda.
"I am not going to start questioning it and it is not for me to interpret the US position", said Duque this morning to reporters after holding individual meetings in the Capitol with senators Marco Rubio, Robert Portman, Tim Kaine and Bob Menéndez.
Colombia shares a 1.3-mile-long border with Venezuela that has been crossed by over 6 million Venezuelan immigrants, according to official data. Colombia intends to regularize the status of 1.7 million Venezuelan immigrants who are already in the country.
President Duque plans to speak to reporters at the steak-out area after the bilateral.
President Duque and his delegation (see list at the bottom of this report) met with POTUS in the Cabinet Room for about 45 minutes and spoke to reporters right after from the steak out area for about four minutes.
Please find some of President Duque's quotes below. As usual, please check against transcript.
"It's also a great honor for us to celebrate 200 years of the bilateral relationship that we have built based on values and based on principles. We have to also express not only our gratitude, but the continuous gratitude for you being one of the architects of Plan Colombia. That was a milestone in the bilateral relationship and allowed Colombia to face and defeat many challenges that we have over the last two decades."
Plan Colombia is a US initiative aimed at combating Colombian drug cartels and insurgent groups.
"We appreciate that you have made the decision to designate Colombia as a Primary Non-NATO Ally because that is the recognition of the values and the principles that we have shared. We also want to thank your support for being the major donor of vaccines.
Colombia becomes the third Latin American country to get this special status, after Argentina and Brazil.
"You have been able to contribute to save the lives of millions of citizens. And this additional 2 million donation of vaccines to Colombia will also be used to attend the needs of many migrants that are in our country.
"We also want to reiterate that the next Summit of the Americas is going to be a great opportunity to embrace the cause of the Build Back Better World, an initiative designed to increase investment, job opportunities and to allow trade and investment to generate jobs."
"We consider that we want to be a reference for other countries in Latin America."
"I also want to express my gratitude for all the support we've gotten from US agencies in order to attend the needs of the 1.8 million Venezuelan migrants in our territory. They have crossed the border with frozen bones they have come to a country without any access to health services."
"We also have to say that in the times we are facing, we have made a strong stand against the brutal, unjustified attack from Russia to Ukraine. This has been a very horrifying moment for the world."
"We have also said that through the multilateral system, we're also be pressing for any sanctions to be implemented."
"We have also spoken to the NATO Secretary General and I have been speaking with leaders in Poland, Romania, Slovakia and other countries in Europe to offer Colombia's advice on migration management in their circumstances. So we'll be there and we will also participate actively in giving that support. We have also made it a humanitarian contribution to NATO."
"We are working with your Administration (US Administration) in the protection of areas in our country, maritime areas and old land areas. So we will not wait until the 2013 to meet the 30 by 30 criteria. And this year, before the month of August we'll have 30% of the Colombian territory declared as a protected area and we're having US support in this."
--The Colombian president came out to the stake out area after the bilateral meeting and spoke in Spanish to reporters for about four minutes. These are some of his quotes:
President Duque referred to the bilateral with POTUS as a "very good" and "historic" meeting.
"The designation of Colombia as a Major non-NATO Ally means celebrating these two hundred years of diplomatic relations taking it to peak in our history", said Duque. The President also celebrated POTUS' interest in having Colombia as "an example" to develop the Build Back Better World initiative, which intends to bring more investment to Latin America.
President Duque said that POTUS stressed the need to defend the Inter-American Democratic Charter and democracy "as the way to solve the crisis in Venezuela, that needs to help slow down the immigration crisis" of Venezuelans fleeing their country.
President Duque thanked POTUS for donating an additional two million Covid vaccines and stressed that the US is the largest donor of vaccines to Colombia. He also celebrated the agreement on an "energy transition agenda to invest in green hydrogen" and that the US is "supporting the declaration of 30% of the Colombia territory as protected area".
Duque also celebrated the US engagement to aid Colombia manage 1.8 Venezuelan migrants. "This is a way to keep responding the needs of the Venezuelan people", Duque added.
On Venezuela:
"Nicolas Maduro is a dictator and we have condemned that dictatorship and have sued Nicolas Maduro before the International Criminal Court".
"Both countries (US and Colombia) see as the only solution to that situation (in Venezuela) with the comeback of democracy to that country".
"Regarding the specifics of that trip (US delegation to Venezuela), regarding that issue, it is to the US to respond".
Duque declined to respond questions on whether he spoke with POTUS about the US engagements with Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro.
Per White House:
Participating in the President's bilateral meeting with Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia:
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
T.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of Commerce
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
T.H. Philip Goldberg, U.S. Ambassador to Colombia
T.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere
T.H. Katie Tobin, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Transborder Security
His Excellency Iván Duque Márquez, President of the Republic of Colombia
H.E. Marta Lucía Ramírez, Vice President and Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Juan Carlos Pinzón, Ambassador of Colombia to the United States
Ms. Maria Paula Correa, Chief of Staff of the President
H.E. Diego Molano, Minister of Defense
H.E. Maria Ximena Lombana, Minister of Commerce
H.E. Carlos Eduardo Correa, Minister of Environment