Pool Reports by 
, 
The White House provides the following update on President's Biden's foreign leaders call:
"President Biden's secure video teleconference with President Macron of France, Chancellor Scholz of Germany, and Prime Minister Johnson of the United Kingdom ended at 12:05 PM EST."
Per the WH:
The Press Briefing will be at 2:15 PM.
Further update: The Press Briefing will begin at 2:30PM.
From a White House official:
The President tested negative for COVID-19 last night.
Members of the CBC are headed to the stakeout, the White House says.
More from a White House official:
Today, members of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus are meeting separately with senior staff at the White House. The President will join for part of both meetings.
This is the beginning of a series of meetings with Congressional caucuses following the State of the Union to discuss shared policy priorities.
At 4:38 pm, the White House called a travel/photo lid.
In attendance for the meeting with the Congressional Black Caucus, per the White House:
Representative Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Chair
Representative Steven Horsford (NV-04), First Vice Chair
Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04), Whip
Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18), Parliamentarian
Representative Frederica Wilson (FL-24), Secretary
Representative Joe Neguse (CO-02), Member at Large
Whip Jim Clyburn (SC-06), Majority Whip of the House of Representatives
Representative Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Chair of the House Democratic Caucus
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Gautam Raghavan, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Presidential Personnel
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Shalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget
In attendance for the meeting with the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus:
Representative Judy Chu (CA-27), Chair
Representative Grace Meng (NY-06), First Vice-Chair
Representative Mark Takano (CA-41), Second Vice-Chair
Representative Ted Lieu (CA-33), Whip
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Erika Moritsugu, Asian American and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Senior Liaison
Gautam Raghavan, Assistant to the President and Director of Office of Presidential Personnel
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Shalanda Young, Acting Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus are headed to the stakeout, per the White House.
Also, there was no pool report #9 for those who are counting. There were two 8s and a 10.