Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from JBA where it's a blustery 46 degrees. I'm your pooler for the VP's trip to California this week. We’re first headed to Vandenberg Space Force base (schedule copied below).
The VP's motorcade arrived at 11:47am ET.
She did not stop to talk to press but waved before she and Second Gentleman Emhoff ascended AF2 at 11:53am. The pair turned and waved before they boarded.
Greeters at the tarmac:
Here’s a look at her schedule for today:

At 
 the Vice President will receive a briefing at the Combined Space Operations Center, Vandenberg Space Force Base. She will be briefed on the work of U.S. Space Force and U.S. Space Command advancing our national security. There will be a pool spray at the top of this briefing.
At 
 the Vice President will meet with a group of service members and their families at Vandenberg Space Force Base. This meeting will be closed press.
At 
the Vice President will deliver remarks about our ongoing work to establish norms for space. These remarks will be open to pre-credentialed media and live-streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
At 
 the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will depart Vandenberg Space Force Base en route Los Angeles, CA . The departure from Vandenberg Space Force Base and arrival at Los Angeles International Airport will be covered by the travel pool.
At 
the Vice President will deliver remarks at a Democratic National Committee fundraiser in Los Angeles, CA.These remarks will be pooled press.
The VP came to the back of the plane to say hello and spoke to pool OTR for about 5 minutes.
We're wheels up for Vandenberg at 12:09pm ET.
Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
AF2 was wheels down at 2:46pm PT (please note time change).
I should also note SGOTUS came to the back of the plane with the VP before we took off. No other notable guests to the back of the plane during the five-hour flight.
Among those traveling with the VP and SGOTUS are Deputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks, U.S. Department of Defense, and her national security adviser Phil Gordon. Pool has asked about who else is on today's flight.
Please see embargoed announcement below:
Today at Vandenberg Space Force Base in California, Vice President Kamala Harris announced that the United States commits not to conduct destructive, direct-ascent anti-satellite (ASAT) missile testing, and that the United States seeks to establish this as a new international norm for responsible behavior in space. The Vice President also called on other nations to make similar commitments and to work together in establishing this as a norm, making the case that such efforts benefit all nations.
At the Biden-Harris Administration's first National Space Council meeting in December, Vice President Harris tasked the National Security Council staff to work with the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and other national security agencies to develop proposals for national security space norms that advance U.S. interests and preserve the security and sustainability of space. The commitment announced today is the first initiative under this effort. The United States is the first nation to make such a declaration.
This commitment addresses one of the most pressing threats to the security and sustainability of space, as demonstrated by Russia's November 2021 destructive direct­ascent ASAT missile test. The People's Republic of China conducted a similar test in 2007. The destruction of space objects through direct-ascent ASAT missile testing is reckless and irresponsible. The long-lived debris created by these tests now threaten satellites and other space objects that are vital to all nations' security, economic, and scientific interests, and increases risk to astronauts in space. Overall, these tests jeopardize the long-term sustainability of outer space and imperil the exploration and use of space by all nations.
Developing a shared understanding of what constitutes safe and responsible space activities contributes to a more stable space environment by reducing the risk of miscommunication and miscalculation. This is especially important as there is an ever-increasing number of states and non-governmental entities that rely on space services and space assets which are vulnerable to debris.
This new commitment also protects U.S. interests in space. Meaningfully reducing ASAT testing and debris generation advances U.S. national security interests and protects long-term U.S. interests in space exploration, space science, and space-enabled economic development.
Conflict or confrontation in outer space is not inevitable, and the United States seeks to ensure outer space remains free from conflict. The Biden-Harris Administration had made clear that the United States will engage the international community to uphold and strengthen a rules-based international order for space. The United States, working with commercial industry, allies, and partners, will lead in the development of new measures that contribute to the safety, stability, security, and long-term sustainability of space activities. Overall, through this new commitment and other actions, the United States will demonstrate how space activities can be conducted in a responsible, peaceful, and sustainable manner.
On December 1, 2021, the Vice President launched the U.S. Space Priorities Framework.
On December 1, 2021, the Vice President chaired the first National Space Council meeting in the Biden-Harris Administration. During the meeting, Council members discussed the following:
The Artemis Accords are a set of norms and principles that promote values-based cooperation and encourage responsible and safe behavior in space. Currently 18 countries have signed the Accords: Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Luxembourg, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Romania, Singapore, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
The following nine countries have joined since the start of the Biden-Harris Administration in part thanks to the Vice President's leadership efforts: Brazil, Bahrain, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, and Singapore.
In her engagements with foreign leaders, the Vice President regularly raises space issues, advances our cooperation on space issues with allies and partners, and has rallied countries to establish rules and norms for responsible behavior in space. Below are some examples.
 


Apologies for some of these delayed reports as we have little to no service.
The VP and SGOTUS stepped off AF2 at 2:58pm local time.
Greeters:
-Colonel Robert Long, Base Commander, Vandenberg Space Force Base
-General John "Jay" Raymond, Chief of Space Operations, U.S.
-General James Dickinson, Commander, U.S. Space Command
-Major General DeAnna Burt, Commander, Combined Force Space Component Command, U.S. Space Command; Deputy Commander, Space Operations Command U.S. Space Force
-Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA)
-Congressman Salud Carbajal (D-CA-24)
Harris notably shed the long black trench coat she was wearing before she boarded AF2 at Andrews. It's a warmer but windy 58 degrees.
Pool was escorted into vans as Harris was still speaking to greeters. She hugged Padilla and Carbajal.
Motorcade rolling at 3:03pm local time and arrived at the Combined Space Operation Center down the road at 3:07pm.
Staff traveling with the VP:
Mike Fuchs, SAP & Deputy Chief of Staff to the VP
Phil Gordon, AP & National Security Advisor to the VP
Josh Hsu, SAP & Counsel to the VP
Chirag Parikh, DAP & Executive Secretary of the National Space Council
Rachel Palermo, Deputy Communication Director
Michelle Solomon, Sr. Director of West Wing Operations
Emily Langner, Staff Secretary to the VP
Pool was ushered into the Combined Space Operation Center to a room on the second floor with three large screens showing promotional footage and DoD's 11 combatant commands. Two smaller screens featured world maps and Timezones.
Around 20 service members and officials were inside awaiting the VP, who entered at 3:15pm. Pool was not allowed inside with phones or recorders for the unclassified portion of the briefing.
Harris gave opening remarks about space being one of her main area focuses and praised Space Force officials as "leaders not only within the nation but worldwide."
She said the work that happens here really is about creating a standard of exceptionalism and "being a role model for the world" in terms of space.
General Dickinson, Commander of US Space Command, explained the origins of Space Force, where it falls in the combatant commands of DoD and how it works with other space and defense related agencies. Harris briefing mistook another service member for Dickinson before he began.
Harris then listened as Maj. General Burt, Commander of the Combine Force Space Component Command, spoke about DoD's interagency partnerships with Space Force (Reconnaissance, NASA, Dept of Commerce). She explained how it helps NASA astronauts take off and return to Earth safely and working with other countries on information sharing.
Burt said they would talk about tabletop exercises, a variety of missions and more on Russia's actions in November (an apparent reference to Russia's launch of an anti-satellite missile) during the classified part of the briefing.
Before pool was ushered out, Harris asked Burt to explain why this impacts the lives of Americans. Burt said Americans rely on the precision of Space Force and the agency helps with cell service, navigation, wildfire support and dealing with natural disasters.
"Forces depend on it," she said, adding Space Force is "definitely something everyone relies on."
Pool was ushered out as Dickinson was speaking at 3:28pm local time and loaded into the vans. On the way back to the vans pool spotted SG waiting in the motorcade.
We are now holding in the vans and waiting for the briefing to end before heading over to the remarks. We are expected to hold there for an hour as Harris meets with service members.
Motorcade left the Combined Space Operation Center at 4:23pm PT and arrived at the remarks site at 4:30pm PT.
Pool was escorted inside a building where 100 of service members are seated in risers behind the podium where Harris is due to speak. A large American flag serves as the backdrop. 100 more service members are seated in the audience.
Maj. General Burt introduced Congressman Carbajal at 4:45pm. He talked about how Vandenberg remains a leader in space force operations.
Sen. Padilla then spoke about maintaining California's leadership in the space industry, its cutting edge aerospace technologies and some of the world's top research universities. He thanked the Biden administration for making space operations a top proirity.
General Dickinson is now speaking.
Again, apologies for the delay. Cell/wifi is incredibly unreliable.
You can watch the live-streamed event at Whitehouse.gov/live.
Deputy Secretary of Defense Hicks took the stage at 5:11pm to talk about the critical work of Space Force in navigating and natural disasters. But today, she said, the US faces a national security threat as Russia and China pursue aggressive space expansion, pointing to Russia's launch of an anti-satellite missile in November.
Specialist Quinaeja Davis, an electromagnetic interference duty officer, introduced Harris.
Harris took the stage at 5:17pm and finished her remarks at 5:31 pm. Please check quotes.
She announced the US commits to not conduct direct-ascent anti satellite missile testing (see earlier embargoed fact sheet)
"These tests, to be sure, are reckless and they are irresponsible. These tests also put in danger so much of what we do in space."
She said Russia's tests like the one in November are part of their efforts to develop anti-satellite weapons systems and an attempt to deny the US our ability to use our space capabilities by destroying our satellites.
"We must write the new norms of the road," she said.
More TK. Pool was ushered out and motorcade rolling at 5:37 PT.
Speaking order, per VP's office:
Motorcade arrived back at the airport at 5:41pm PT.
Harris and SG walked over to a line of service members, shaking their hands and posing for a picture. The couple then posed with staff members before boarding AF2 at 5:45pm ET.
Harris did not stop to talk to press. We are wheels up for LA at 6pm PT.
AF2 was wheels down at 6:32pm local time.
No visits to the back of the plane for the short flight to LAX.
Harris and SG deplaned at 6:42pm local time. The VP waved but did not stop to talk to press.
Motorcade is rolling at 6:45 pm for the DNC fundraiser where Harris is due to deliver remarks.
Some quotes from earlier (please check against transcript):
Harris said in the days and months ahead "we will work with other nations to establish this as a new international norm for responsible behavior in space. There is a direct connection between such a norm and the daily life of the American people."
She said satellites taken out by debris created by the tests Russia launched can affect our daily weather forecast, interrupt critical infrastructure and threaten how we protect our troops.
"All of this is threatened by the debris created by these reckless tests."
Motorcade arrived at 7:15 pm local time at the Brentwood home of Dana and Matt Walden. Dana Walden is the chairman of entertainment for Walt Disney Television.
Pool is holding in the vans.
Pool walked up a tree-lined driveway and held on the side of the house before being escorted back for the VP's remarks.
About 30 people were in attendance for the fundraiser. Matt Walden gave opening remarks and noted the small group was able to raise $1 million dollars tonight.
He introduced SG, noting the two have been friends for almost 35 years. "Doug was formidable and a force of nature even back then," he said. "the way that he is embraced and fulfilled in his role as a second gentleman makes me so so proud to call one of my closest friends."
"It's good to be home. It is so good to be back in California. Back in our neighborhood among so many amazing friends, family," Emhoff said.
He noted he's only SGOTUS because the country was "smart enough to elect the first female Vice President."
Says he misses California but "But to be able to leave something that I love so much to do something so important for our country is truly truly, truly humbling."
Says he approaches midterms with "huge sense of optimism and confidence and joy, because we're on the right side of so many issues and we will continue to be on the right side of so many issues and I'm not going to stop. I'm going to keep fighting and keep working until we get this job done."
He accidentally introduces Harris as "our wife" before correcting himself and noting that he's been at it since the Easter Egg roll this morning in DC.
Harris started speaking at 7:58pm by praising her husband. She noted last year he made 35 trips on behalf of the administration.
She says Emhoff " is really lifting up the voice of what it means to be a partner to someone regardless of gender."
"And he's been doing it in a way that is really very, I think important and special. There's so many young men and women who have been watching how he does it as a model of how we can think about relationships and partnerships."
More tk
Harris thanked Dana, whom she said has been a friend for decades. Pool spotted Ryan Murphy, JJ Abrams and Reggie Hudlin among the guests.
Harris moved into remarks on what Democrats stand for and are achieving.
"there's so much that we stand for that never has been nor will it ever be easy to achieve," she said.
"In fact, I dare say, as a daughter of parents who met when they were active in the civil rights movement, there's never been any substantial or significant progress that our country has made That did not involve a fight did not involve hard work did not involve extraordinary forces that seemed to be working against that progress."
What do Democrats stand for?
"That each of us is equal, regardless of gender, Background religion. We stand for the principle that, given that we are all equal, we should be treated that way.
"Each of our policies are fueled with that perspective, including being guided by not only the importance of equality but of equity."
She notes the administration's focus on pay equity and highlighting the specific needs of women in the workforce over the course of the pandemic - including that childcare shouldn't be so expensive.
"We stand for a healthcare system that is informed with the understanding that access to affordable health care should be a right," she said, pointing to expansion of the Affordable Care Act, lowering the cost of prescription drugs and unburdening those overwhelmed by medical debt.
She says we stand for women's rights, when it comes to what should be a non-negotiable Understanding and Right of women to make decisions about their own body, including their reproductive health and choice.
Says it's time to "remind people of the optimism that we bring to everything that we stand for and everything we know is achievable."
"It means reminding people as the Democratic Party of what we have achieved and accomplished."
She notes she's been to Europe three times in recent months as part of the administration's efforts to strengthen NATO partnerships.
She acknowledges the economy hardships. "Now, yeah it costs more money at the pump, and we need to deal with that we need to acknowledge but we also need to keep with our program around making it easier to get by day to day which means again, going back to the childcare, which means bringing down the cost of living means looking at what we have an investment in affordable housing what we should do in terms of bringing down the cost of prescription drugs."
But she said Democrats will need to remind people why they should vote in Nov - echoing remarks she made at last week's DNC fundraiser in DC.
"You put in an order, you said I want certain things to happen," she said, pointing to accomplishments including the Child Tax Credit, "which has meant that at least in the first year we reduce child poverty."
She pointed to Biden fulfilling his promise to put the first Black woman on the Supreme Court.
"You want an administration that's going to bring back the world community - you got it. You want the creation of jobs. You want a vaccine that's going to be distributed to all people, you want the schools to be reopened: check check check."
"So when when you made the effort, when we did the emailing and the calling and the texting and the knocking on doors, it mattered. Elections matter. And so as we go toward this next election, let's remind people that it matters, and that we are so well aware of the work that we still have yet to do."
She said she's approaching the midterms with "a great sense of optimism."
"And we don't have to any time to slow down. You don't have any time to doubt ourselves. We gotta get to work."
The VP finished speaking at 8:17pm for a total of 19 minutes. Pool was escorted back to the press vans immediately after.
Motorcade is rolling for RON at 8:33pm local time.
Pool broke off from the motorcade and will RON at the W Westwood while the VP and SG returned to their Brentwood home. Harris will remain in LA for Tues and Wed and has no press events during that time.
Pool will rejoin the VP on Thursday to fly to San Francisco for a Black maternal health event. She’ll remain in California for the remainder of the weekend.
We have a travel/photo lid for the night.
Please reach out with any questions in the meantime.