Pool Reports by 
, 
The pool and pre-credentialed media are gathering now for the Easter Egg roll and related festivities on the South Lawn.
It is chilly and raining.
The pool is positioned on a riser overlooking the South Portico. There are abundant Easter decorations.
There are multiple risers is between two active Easter Egg rolls with queues of children waiting to participate.
At the "reading nook" on the lawn, Kristin Chenoweth is reading to one group of children.
There is also a nearby "physical eggucation" station with basketballs and hoops, as well as some soccer balls and DC United signage.
Further south on the lawn there's a red school house doorway.
The president and first lady just emerged, accompanied by two Easter bunnies.
The program with the president is getting underway as of 10:12 am.
It should be streaming in the usual places.
Remarks concluded at 10:16 am and the pool moved to a position adjacent to an Easter egg roll competition where about 14 children are waiting to compete.
POTUS, FLOTUS, the VP, Second Gentleman and the Easter Bunny came out on the lawn at 10:26 a.m.
The president and the first lady gave the signal starting a roll at 10:27 a.m. The president has a whistle to signal the start of rolls.
After overseeing a few races, the president and First Lady moved toward the reading nook area. They took the stage at the reading nook and they began reading Brown Bear, Brown Bear at 10:40 a.m.
Confirming a couple of spotted notes, your pooler has seen both Jimmy Fallon and Pennsylvania's Lt. Gov. John Fetterman on the lawn today.
Jimmy Fallon joined POTUS and FLOTUS at the reading nook to read his own book Nana Loves You More, finishing up at 10:47 a.m. There is video of that, here:
The weather has been deteriorating into mixed precipitation, but the president and first lady continued talking to visitors and taking photos until shortly before 11a.m.
Your pool also spotted Secretary of State Blinken in the audience at the reading nook.
A lunch lid has been called until the press briefing, scheduled for 4 p.m.
Two minute warning for the briefing as of 4:03 p.m.
An Easter Bunny came to the briefing room ahead of Press Secretary Jen Psaki. There are better photos from those closer to the front of the room, but sharing a photo from your pooler's vantage point that I'll also tweet out from @nielslesniewski.
The briefing concluded at 4:52 p.m. without getting as far as the print pool today.
The White House called a lid at 5:11 p.m.