Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning all,
I'll be your pooler for the VP's event in Philadelphia. She'll be delivering remarks at 5PM.
On Tuesday, Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh will travel to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to uplift the Biden-Harris Administration's work to support workers and strengthen the middle class. Vice President Harris and Secretary Walsh will meet with labor leaders at the Sheet Metal Workers Local 19 training center and will later deliver remarks. They will be joined by Senator Bob Casey, Congresswoman Mary Gay Scanlon, and Congressman Dwight Evans.
The Biden-Harris Administration believes that increasing worker organizing and empowerment is critical to growing the middle class and building an economy that puts workers first. President Biden's commitment to those goals is why he created the White House Labor Task Force, which the Vice President Chairs and the Secretary of Labor co-chairs. During her remarks, the Vice President will discuss the work of the White House Labor Task Force, the Administration's efforts to create good-paying union jobs, and announce a new workplace extreme heat program through the Department of Labor.
Over the past year, Vice President Harris, Secretary Walsh, and Task Force staff have held more than two dozen meetings with stakeholders, including labor unions, small and large employers, grassroots worker advocates, academics, and others. The Vice President and Labor Secretary have met with workers in Columbus, OH, Pittsburgh, PA, Durham, NC, Upper Marlboro, MD, and in Washington, DC.
During her remarks, the Vice President will announce that the Department of Labor (DOL)'s Occupational, Health, and Safety Administration (OSHA) is launching a new National Emphasis Program (NEP) on Outdoor and Indoor Heat Related Hazards. As we enter summer, this will provide OSHA an important mechanism for protecting workers, including those who will be putting funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to work repairing bridges, replacing lead pipes, laying broadband fiber, and more.
:
Established in April of 2021, The Task Force is comprised of over 20 participant agencies, offices, and White House components, counting 13 cabinet secretaries as members. Its charge is to "identify executive branch policies, practices, and programs that could be used, consistent with applicable law, to promote my Administration's policy of support for worker power, worker organizing, and collective bargaining."

AF2 was wheels up for Philadelphia at 10:45am.
The VP came back to gaggle OTR for a few minutes before take off.
M2 touched down at JBA at 10:28am.
VP walked over and boarded AF2 at 10:32am.
She was wearing a grey suit.
Before boarding she waved at the pool but did not stop to answer one shouted question about the shootings in Brooklyn.
Tarmac greet with VP:
Greeter: Maj. Guy Evertson, Director Flight Line Protocol, C- 32A Pilot
Liz Shuler, President of AFL-CIO is traveling with the VP per VP staff.
AF2 was wheels down at Philadelphia International Airport at 11:20pm.
VP stepped out of AF2 at 11:34am
She was greeted by:
- Governor Tom Wolf (D-PA)
- Congressman Dwight Evans (D-PA-03)
Pool was ushered to the vans as the VP was wrapping up a short conversation with the greeters.
Motorcade rolling at 11:38am.
ON BACKGROUND FROM WH Official:
The Vice President is being updated regularly regarding the New York City subway shooting.
Motorcade arrived at the Sheet Metal Workers Local 19 Training Center at 11:48am.
We did not see the VP get out of her car.
Pool will be holding at the location until the event.
As a reminder, VP is scheduled to speak at 5pm.
On Background: 
There were already some speakers on stage when pool was brought out to the risers.
At 4:10pm Senator Bob Casey took the stage, followed by Gov. Tom Wolf.
At 4:16pm, they finished speaking and we now have a musical interlude.
Per staff, about 480 have already gathered and about 40 union members are in stands behind the podium.
And here's a picture of the scene.
[
]
The VP walked on stage at 4:45pm.
She was introduced by William Griffin, Third Year Apprentice, Sheet Metal Workers Local 19.
She finished speaking at 5:04pm. She talked for a few minutes with the apprentice who introduced her and posed for a picture with his family.
She waved to the crowd as she walked off stage.
We are rolling to the airport at 5:12pm.
Here are some quotes:
About Sec Walsh
"he and I get on quite well we really do enjoy to this company. we've we've developed a real friendship and you know, some people might look at us and say, well, what could they possibly have in common? You know, I grew up on the other side of the country. But he and I were raised with the same values."
"The last eight years have been the hottest on record. And many of the jobs that the bipartisan infrastructure law created will require workers to work outdoors outside to build back up our nation's infrastructure. And that means during the summer months in particular, they will be working outside in the heat building bridges, replacing lead pipes, laying broadband wire"
"Heat is a workplace safety issue."
"Some people who don't understand, need to understand that the workplace to get the jobs done that will make life easier, for most people in our country, that workplace is not not necessarily an office with air conditioning."
"our administration is going to continue this fight until every worker is protected by using every tool at our disposal to mitigate the danger posed by extreme heat."
As always, please check quotes against tape.
Before the VP, Labor Secretary Marty Walsh took the stage, speaking for about 10mn.
"This administration is not afraid to say the word 'union'"
Speakers:
We are wheels up at 5:36pm
Motorcade arrived on the tarmac at 5:22pm.
VP stopped to take a picture with her team on the ground and then boarded AF2 at 5:24pm without taking one question on whether it was the admin's position that what is happening in Ukraine is a genocide.
While we were holding this afternoon the VP did 2 interviews:
The Philadelphia Inquirer (Print)
WPVI 6ABC Action News (TV)
AF2 was wheels down at JBA at 6:08pm.
VP walked out of AF2 at 6:20pm.
She waved to the pool, walked over to M2 and took off at 6:26pm.
That's a wrap on your pooler's first AF2 trip.
Hope you have a great evening!