Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House. I will be your print pooler for the day.
There’s not a lot on the schedule this afternoon.
Jen Psaki’s daily briefing is scheduled for 3 p.m. POTUS meets with top military leaders in the Cabinet Room at 4 p.m. There will be a pool spray at the top of that meeting.
At 5:30 p.m., the president and the first lady will host a dinner for military leaders and their spouses. The dinner is closed press.
I’ll let you know if there are any changes to the schedule.
Shoot me a message if you have any questions.
[
]
The briefing began at 3:05 p.m.
The briefing ended at 3:45 p.m.
Pool is gathering for the president’s meeting with military leaders.
Pool is still waiting to enter the Cabinet Room, where POTUS is meeting with top military leaders.
From the White House:
In attendance for the President’s meeting with the Combatant Commanders in the Cabinet Room:
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks
General Mark Milley, USA, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Admiral Christopher Grady, USN, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
General David Berger, USMC, Commandant of the Marine Corps
Admiral Michael Gilday, USN, Chief of Naval Operations
General John Raymond, USSF, Chief of Space Operations
General Charles Q. Brown, Jr., USAF, Chief of Staff of the Air Force
General Daniel Hokanson, USA, Chief of the National Guard Bureau
Admiral Karl Schultz, USCG, Commandant of the Coast Guard
General Paul Nakasone, USA, Commander, US Cyber Command
General Richard Clarke, USA, Commander, US Special Operations Command
General Stephen Townsend, USA, Commander, US Africa Command
Admiral Charles Richard, USN, Commander, US Strategic Command
General Glen VanHerck, USAF, Commander, US Northern Command
General James Dickinson, USA, Commander, US Space Command
Admiral John Aquilino, USN, Commander, US Indo-Pacific Command
General Jaqueline Van Ovost, USAF, Commander, US Transportation Command
General Laura Richardson, USA, Commander, US Southern Command
General M. Erik Kurilla, USA, Commander, US Central Command
Dr. Paul Brister, Director for Defense Policy and Strategy, National Security Council
Pool was escorted into the Cabinet Room at 4:28 pm.
POTUS gave brief remarks. He said he wanted to hear from the military leaders about what they are hearing from the field and across the forces.
"I want to applaud the exceptional work you're doing" to equip Ukrainians.
He said we're seeing how vital alliances and partnerships are.
"Our allies are stepping up."
Pool was escorted out of the room at 4:34 pm.
More quotes to come.
A travel/photo lid was called at 4:47 p.m.
More from POTUS remarks in the Cabinet Room:
POTUS praised members of the armed services and their families for longstanding service.
He noted that for the first time in the history of the armed forces, "you not only have a highly qualified woman as vice president, but as the deputy secretary of defense."
"It's an important milestone that speaks …. to the diversity of our country."
"I want to applaud the exceptional work you're doing to arm and equip Ukrainians and defend their nation."
"We're seeing just how vital our alliances and partnerships are. Our allies are stepping up."
He spoke of the nation's "scared duty" to military men and women "to prepare and properly equip you before we send you into harm's way."
On Ukraine: "I don't know about you, but I've been to Ukraine a number of times. I've spoken with them a lot. I was deeply involved. And I knew they were tough and proud. But I can tell you what, they are tougher and more proud than I thought."
Resending and correcting the following sentence. The original version was mangled by autocorrect.
He spoke of the nation's "sacred duty" to military men and women "to prepare and properly equip you before we send you into harm's way."