Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. Pool is now walking to the vans to head up to the National Cathedral for former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's funeral. Remarks are scheduled for 11am and are slated to be streamed. POTUS is expected to speak for approximately 15 minutes, per a WH official.
Will update on arrival.
Pool did not see POTUS enter.
Traveling with the President to former Secretary of State Madeline Albright's funeral, per a WH official:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Jen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for European Affairs, National Security Council
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Per a WH official, the family asked for all funeral attendees and press to remain masked for the duration of the service.
Spelling was incorrect in the list provided by the WH. Thanks to the reader who caught the typo.
Pool did not see POTUS leave the Cathedral.
Other WH officials entered the West Wing via the Colonnade.
[
]
Was called like 60 seconds ago...
The Teachers of the Year event is scheduled for 4pm and should begin momentarily.
Remarks are being carried live.
Biden appeared to answer a shouted question on how he secured the release of Trevor Reed:
"I did it."
How?
"I raised it three months ago."
Your print pool was not in a great position to witness and record this exchange. Biden was closer to the cameras so when we're out of the East Room I will attempt to get better audio.
First, we have a travel photo lid.
Second, here's the exchange the president had with CNN as he was leaving the East Room through the center door, out into the F0yer. Print pool had been sequestered in the northern half of the room, so thanks to Kaitlan for sharing her iPhone video. Transcribed as follows.
CNN: "Mr. President, how did Trevor Reed's release happen given the invasion and what's going on?
Biden: "Say again."
CNN: "Were you surprised that Trevor Reed was released, given the invasion?"
Biden: "I did it. I raised it."
CNN: "How? How though?
Biden: "It was three months ago."
CNN: "What does it signal?"
Biden then walked away.