Today, on Earth Day, President Biden will sign an Executive Order to expand his Administration's historic and bold efforts to tackle the climate crisis, make our nation more resilient to extreme weather, and strengthen local economies. The President will sign the Executive Order in Seattle, Washington—rounding out a trip across the West focused on lowering costs for families and protecting communities from intensifying climate impacts. Wildfires and extreme weather events are growing in frequency and ferocity, engulfing communities in the West and across the country and costing lives, homes, and money. Because President Biden knows the cost of inaction is too great, he is taking bold executive action and reaffirming his calls on Congress to address the climate crisis.
America's forests are a key climate solution, absorbing carbon dioxide equivalent to more than 10% of U.S. annual greenhouse gas emissions. Federal lands are home to many of the nation's mature and old-growth forests, which serve as critical carbon sinks, cherished landscapes, and unique habitats. However, these magnificent ecosystems are threatened by the climate impacts that are already here, with intensifying wildfires demanding urgent action to protect our forests and the economies that depend on them. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides historic wildfire resilience funding and calls for prioritizing the restoration of old-growth forests.
Building on this directive and the Administration's commitment to climate-smart forest stewardship, today's Executive Order will:
Across these efforts, the Administration will leverage historic investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the FY 2022 budget, and work in partnership with states, Tribal Nations, communities, industry, NGOs, labor, scientists, and private landowners, to strengthen our forests while creating good-paying jobs.
Today's Executive Order will advance the Biden-Harris Administration's climate goals and economic agenda by:
Under President Biden's leadership, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Forest Service has developed a 
 to reduce wildfire risk through science-based fuels and forest health treatments, with a goal of treating an additional 50 million acres across federal and non-federal lands. The Department of the Interior (DOI) has also developed a 
 for monitoring, maintenance, and treatment efforts focused on fire-prone Interior and Tribal lands.
As a critical down payment, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $8 billion to fund forest and land management activities, and the FY 2022 Omnibus provides $5.7 billion for wildland fire management and related risk mitigation and research. USDA and DOI are mobilizing $5 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for hazardous fuels reduction and other mitigation programs, such as a $1 billion Community Wildfire Defense Grant program and $600 million for firefighter pay—providing about 1,500 additional firefighters and supporting the President's commitment that no federal firefighter will make less than $15 an hour. Already, USDA has 
 $131 million this year for wildfire risk reduction treatments in high-risk landscapes in Washington, Oregon, California, Idaho, Montana, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona.
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law directs DOI and USDA to specifically prioritize the restoration of old-growth forests, taking into consideration their contributions to landscape fire adaptation. However, there is currently no inventory that identifies the location and condition of mature and old-growth stands.
Going forward, the Administration will work with Congress to secure additional resources, by requesting $6.1 billion for wildfire risk reduction in the President's FY 2023 Budget and continuing to pursue historic climate resilience investments in additional legislation.
America's forests provide millions of jobs and underpin local economies, particularly in rural communities. The Biden-Harris Administration is mobilizing historic resources to help these forests and communities thrive. For example, the Administration's Building a Better America Rural Infrastructure Tour is 
 wide-ranging support for healthy forest economies, including: planning assistance to boost outdoor recreation economies; support for Tribes, local governments, and conservation non-profits to establish community forests that create jobs; and grants to expand markets for innovative wood products and wood energy that support sustainable forest management.
Through the FY 2022 Omnibus, the Administration is also investing $162 million in cooperative forestry programs across State, municipal, and privately-owned forest landscapes. Additionally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law significantly expands reforestation projects on National Forest land—enough to plant an estimated 1.2 billion trees and sequester 75 million metric tons of carbon, all while supporting thousands of jobs.
President Biden has committed to help deliver on global goals to end natural forest loss by 2030, while restoring at least an additional 200 million hectares of forests and other ecosystems. At the COP26 international climate conference, President Biden announced the "
"—harnessing U.S. diplomatic, policy, and financing tools, in partnership with other countries, Indigenous and local forest communities, the private sector, and civil society, and with a focus on three critical areas of global importance: the Amazon, Congo, and Southeast Asian forests.
The Biden-Harris Administration has led the way on enhancing nature's ability to support the health, wellbeing, and economic security of all Americans. President Biden launched the 
 to support his goal of conserving at least 30 percent of U.S. lands and waters by 2030. Interagency Working Groups reporting to the 
 are exploring nature-based solutions to address extreme heat, drought, wildfire, flood, and coastal threats. The Administration is also recognizing the value of and elevating 
 across federal scientific and policy processes. The President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides—as part of over $50 billion in historic resilience investments—funding for nature-based solutions, including $2.3 billion for the Forest Service and Interior to advance ecosystem restoration and resilience.
To facilitate use of these and other resources, today the National Climate Task Force's Coastal Resilience Interagency Working Group, co-led by the White House Council on Environmental Quality and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, is releasing a 
—streamlining access to more than 100 information resources and 48 federal programs that can support nature-based solutions in coastal areas.