Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Los Angeles. I'll be your print pooler today for VP Harris' final leg of her trip to California. We're headed to San Francisco where the VP will give remarks on the maternal health crisis.
Here's a look at today's schedule:
the Vice President will depart Los Angeles, CA en route San Francisco, CA. The departure from Los Angles International and arrival at San Francisco International will be covered by the travel pool.
the Vice President will meet with current and former maternal health patients, and speak with members of the maternal health care workforce. This will take place in the William J. Rutter Center at the University of California, San Francisco Mission Bay and will be pooled press.
the Vice President will deliver remarks on the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to improve maternal health. These remarks in the William J. Rutter Center at the University of California, San Francisco Mission Bay will be covered by pre-credentialed media and livestreamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
the Vice President will depart San Francisco, CA en route Los Angeles International. The departure from San Francisco International and arrival at Los Angeles International will be closed press.
Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
Motorcade arrived at LAX at 10:08 am local time.
VP Harris stepped out shortly after and immediately boarded AF2 (tail #80001 for those wondering). She stumbled as she climbed AF2 and turned and waved before boarding at 10:09am. There are no greeters for today's short flight.
VP waved at press but did not stop to talk before boarding at
We're rolling for SF shortly.
AF2 was wheels up at 10:27am PDT. No visitors to the back of the plane.
Wheels down at 11:19am PDT.
Today the Vice President will visit the University of California San Francisco Mission Bay as a part of her continued leadership addressing the maternal health crisis.
While at the William J. Rutter Center at UCSF, the Vice President will discuss the EMBRACE program, which uses an innovative approach to improving maternal health outcomes, particularly for Black women. She will meet with expecting families, join a group perinatal session, and speak with members of the health care workforce. 
This visit follows last week, when the Vice President marked Black Maternal Health Week by convening a historic meeting with Cabinet Secretaries and agency leaders to discuss the Administration's whole-of-government approach to addressing maternal mortality and morbidity. The Vice President brought together leaders across the federal government – including agencies that may not have historically taken a leading role addressing the maternal health crisis.
During the meeting the Vice President, announced several key actions to address maternal health and combat the systemic inequities that lead to worse maternal outcomes for Black, Native American, and rural women. The next day, she announced that in response to her Call to Action, Michigan is extending postpartum coverage from 2 weeks to 12 months. Michigan joins Louisiana, Virginia, New Jersey and Illinois' extension of postpartum coverage. The Administration is working with another 11 states to extend postpartum coverage.
Harris alighted AF2 at 11:30am.
She walked over to the greeters (Mayor Breed, Lt. Gov. Kounalakis ans CMS administrator Brooks-LaSure) and spoke for about four minutes to all three, who were all dress in blue blazers (Harris also in a blue suit).
VP came over and spoke to press on Biden's announcement for more aid to Ukraine.
she said Russia's invasion of Ukraine has been not only been "steeped in atrocities" but a "strategic failure."
Said Biden's remarks talked about what we continue to do which is "support the Ukrainian people, President Zelesnkyy,with what we can interms of economic assistance and humanitaria assistance but also with equal fervor, we are absolutely committed to continuing with the serious consequences and costs" for Russia with its acts of aggression and what the president has said about its criminal conduct.
Called it "one of our highest priorities."
More TK.
We're rolling at 11:39am.
Greeters on tarmac:
- Mayor London Breed (D-San Francisco, CA)
- Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis (D-CA)
- Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
Motorcade arrived at 11:58 PDT.
Pool hustled inside but did not spot VP upon entering. We were ushered through Fisher Atrium where the VP will later deliver remarks and took an elevator to a room for the first stop on her tour.
Six yoga mats, equipped with blankets, yoga blocks and long pillows were displayed in the center of the room.
Hope Williams, a community leader and expecting mother who is briefing Harris, sat on a patient table in the corner of the room. Her husband, Kenneth Burt, stood nearby.
We're awaiting Harris.
Here's some details on today's tour:
Tour participants
Tour steps
As a reminder, please check Harris quotes against transcript. Here's audio from her remarks under the wing:

She said the US would continue to issue sanctions but "all with an understanding that one of our highest priorities is sovereignty and territorial integrity as a as a solid principle that binds and unites the NATO alliance."
Harris entered the room at 12:20.
She stood over Williams as the two greeted each other. Harris did a wrist bump with both Williams and her husband.
"I'm going to try to not get emotional," Williams said.
"Let's talk about it," Harris said to Williams.
VP said it's about fighting for "the dignity you rightly deserve" and "about understanding that when it comes to women's health, we as a country still have a lot of work to do."
Said we need to ensure women are being treated as human beings.
Pool was escorted out of the room as the two contained talking at 12:23pm for the next stop on the tour.
Pool was hustled into another room where six patients and their family members were seated in a circle. One mother had a baby on her lap and a young girl sat next to her parents. One woman was in a mask.
Plants and a bookcase displaying artifacts (a baby onesie, books and statues among them) were tucked in the left corner of the room.
The group is expected to discuss prenatal care with Harris.
Harris entered at 12:32pm and walked around the room giving each person a wrist bump.
"Who's this young leader?" She said to the young girl.
She sat down in a chair in and listened as a doctor explained the EMBRACE model, which includes convening patients along with family members about mental health services, inter generational trauma, nutrition and how to mitigate stress.
"That's right," Harris said repeatedly as she listened.
VP said the piece about trauma "is so true" and the level of diagnosed trauma and how that has an impact on your emotional well-being and the physical.
Pool was escorted out after about three and a half minutes and taken to the third stop.
Pool was taken to a third room where a cheerful group of 24 female medical workers stood talking in the center of the room. An EMBRACE logo was displayed next to a tall bookshelf featuring poster images of members and two baby onesies. Tables and chairs situated on the outer perimeter of the room sat empty.
Ayesha Curry, Steph Curry's wife, and Sydel Curry-Lee, Curry's sister, stood with a group of three doctors, Dr. Michael Drake, president of the university, Mayor Breed and Lt Gov Kounalakis on the left side of the room.
Harris entered with Brooks-LaSure at 12:56pm. The group clapped as she entered. She appeared excited to see Dr. Drake and said hi from across the room before a doctor begain explaining who was in the room.
Harris said she was so happy to be here and she was so looking forward to their conversation.
She praised their work and for empowering women. "It's extraordinary the gift that you have."
"I'm just so happy to be back," she said, noting that she's done a lot of work at the University over the years. "It's good to be home."
Harris then listened as a doctor gave remarks about the importance of Black maternal healthcare and Black health providers.
Pool was escorted out at 1:03pm.
Guests mingled in the hallway next to the Fisher, Atrium, where Harris is due to give her remarks. Some were seated. Most were not wearing masks.
A stage was set up with a blue backdrop featuring three American flags and three California flags. Both flags were also displayed prominently on either side of the podium.
Remarks program:
- Dr. Michael Drake, President of the University of California gives welcome remarks
- Dr. Andrea Jackson
- Mayor London Breed
- Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
- Senator Dianne Feinstein
- Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
- Adrienne Gorrell introduces VP
Feinstein gave brief prepared remarks, praising Harris for championing a bill to reduce maternal mortality as a senator and continuing to shine a light on the issue as vice president.
Harris entered at 2:12 and began speaking.
Pool will send any notable color but you can watch the livestreamed speech here:
VP ended her remarks at 2:25pm PDT. She briefly greeted members of the audience, at one point holding a baby, before leaving.
Pool is breaking away from the VP so we will not get a chance to ask about the news of her chief of staff's departure. She's heading back to Los Angeles.
Apologies for not putting this in the last report: We have a travel/photo lid.