Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from your pooler.
Pool is expected to gather shortly for the president's remarks on Ukraine in the Roosevelt Room. The TV poolers just went to preset.
Pool is moving for President Biden's remarks on Ukraine as of 10:54 a.m.
Two-minute warning issued at 11:11 a.m. for the president's remarks on Ukraine.
The signal in the Roosevelt Room was poor. Please excuse the delayed pool report.
The president finished speaking at about 11:33 p.m.
He took at least six questions from reporters on a range of topics, including the economy, Title 42, Ukrainian refugees, the war in Europe, and student debt. Several of his responses to the questions made news. I will transcribe if I see the Q&A session wasn't available online.
Lunch lid called at 12:02 p.m. until 1:45 p.m.
[
]
Pool is being told not to gather for President Biden's meeting with small businesses in the South Court Auditorium until at least 1:55 p.m.
Pool is gathering as of 1:51 p.m. for President Biden's small business meeting.
Signal is spotty in the South Court Auditorium, so pooler may not be able to send quotes until after.
See below from the press office.
Attending the president's meeting with small business owners:
Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman, Small Business Administration
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Jennifer Arniella, Owner, Unique Crafts by Jenn (Miami, FL)
Jeff Yerxa, Co-Founder, Lost Sock Roasters (Washington, DC)
Nicolas Cabrera, Co-Founder, Lost Sock Roasters (Washington, DC)
Edward Garcia III, Co-Founder, The Box Street Social (San Antonio, TX)
Daniel Trevino, Co-Founder, The Box Street Social (San Antonio, TX)
President Biden began speaking in the South Court Auditorium at 2:06 p.m.
The auditorium is set up so that most of the stage can't be seen from the audience. Most of the photographers are gathered in the corner of the stage where the president is visible. One reporter tried to shout a question but the president didn't answer.
Pool ushered out at 2:11 p.m.
Lunch lid called at 2:17 p.m. until 3 p.m.
Two-minute warning to Jen Psaki's press briefing called at 3:13 p.m.
Travel/photo lid at 4:27 p.m.