Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning and Happy Earth Day from Seattle, where it's cloudy and 45 degrees.
Flagging two POTUS appearances today, both viewable at WhiteHouse.gov/live:
10:30 AM PDT 
 
 
12:30 PM PDT
I've had questions about what POTUS said last night at the Seattle fundraiser about Disney and saying "gay." My audio is soft, but here's what I have. As always, check against WH transcript:
"This is not your father's Republican Party. This is a different deal, not a joke. And it's not just Trump, it's the MAGA crowd. It's all about things that have nothing to do with traditional conservative [outcomes? Hard to hear]. I respect conservatives. 
I mean, what's going on here? What the hell is going on here? And it's just, it's so, I don't think this is where the vast majority of the American people are."
Just got a functional link to audio from Seattle fundraiser last night, with tech help from FiscalNote:
A little big to email, here's the download link:
[
]
It's good for seven days in our transfer bucket. Use as needed / see fit
Folks - please note, the audio from Seattle fundraiser is not for publication / broadcast / distribution ... Only pencils were allowed into the event.
Thank you!
Motorcade departed RON at 10:40 am PDT, en route Seward Park in Seattle for Earth Day remarks.
Remarks viewable at WhiteHouse.gov/live
From the WH press office:
Traveling with the President today:
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Emmy Ruiz, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy and Outreach
Ali Zaidi, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Climate Advisor
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Liz Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs Liaison
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Motorcade arrived Seward Park in Seattle at 11 am PDT. Drive was uneventful, onlookers with phones up.
Small child held up a sign that said "There is no Planet B"
Near the park, crowds were big, some with signs showing upset on enviro policies. Like this "Biden: no fossil fuel projects!"
Potus took podium at 11:06 PDT. See live stream.
From the press office:
In attendance for the President's remarks on Earth Day and the Signing of the Executive Order Strengthening the Nation's Forests, Communities, and Local Economies:
Approximately 25-40 invited guests, local elected officials, community leaders, and key stakeholders
On stage for the signing:
Jay Inslee, Governor of Washington
Patty Murray, U.S. Senator (WA)
Maria Cantwell, U.S. Senator (WA)
Kim Schrier, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-08)
Adam Smith, U.S. Congressman (WA-09)
Suzan DelBene, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-01)
Rick Larsen, U.S. Congressman (WA-02)
Derek Kilmer, U.S. Congressman (WA-06)
Bruce Harrell, Mayor of Seattle
Greeting the President at Seward Park, Seattle, WA:
Jay Inslee, Governor of Washington
Patty Murray, U.S. Senator (WA)
Maria Cantwell, U.S. Senator (WA)
Kim Schrier, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-08)
Adam Smith, U.S. Congressman (WA-09)
Suzan DelBene, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-01)
Rick Larsen, U.S. Congressman (WA-02)
Derek Kilmer, U.S. Congressman (WA-06)
Bruce Harrell, Mayor of Seattle
Potus spoke from teleprompter. White House Earth Day sign to the left (his right). It's chilly -53 degrees- but at least it's not raining.
Some highlights, check against transcript:
"Governor Inslee is the climate governor"
"we're gonna start the process for every vehicle in the United States military, Every vehicle is going to be climate friendly"
"every time I get a little down… I just turn on the television or take a look at all the young children…"
And every time I get down… I just turn on the television and take a look at all the young children"
"By the way, windmills don't cause cancer"
"We're investing in technology so you can you can heat and cool your home when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow because here in Silicon Valley, you're developing the battery technology"
Says he wants to buy the first electric corvette
"we're going to eliminate 10s of 1000s of diesel school buses, which pollute the air and pollute the lungs"
"look, we set new standards for cleaner cement. This is what I told him I told him this is his tank cleaner cement. Cement is an incredible pollutant and incredible pollutant and it matters because cement responsible for 8% of the global climate emissions, cement. I gotta admit to as long as I've been involved in this until two years, but I didn't know that"
Cute story about little girl walking up to him and asking Mr. Pwesident" please protect "beahs eahs" — Bears Ears.
"We put environmental justice center of what we do, addressing the disproportionate health environmental and economic impacts that had been born primarily by communities of color, places too often left behind."
Talks about the "50 presidents" in the senate.
On the Gop: "this is the MAGA party. It's you know, and you got the senator from Texas and others and these guys are a different breed of cat."
"My pen's ready to sign. Get some of these bills to my desk"
"I mean used to be if you look from the Atlantic coast, almost Mississippi River was heavy forest, who took it all down and that's why today I'm signing the executive order to conserve our forest To do so much to protect us. you know our forest our planet's lungs."
"So today I'm about to sign an executive order to strengthen our forest on federal lands and make them and the local economies they support more resilient in the face of wildfires."
". you know, the executive order I'm about to sign is going to make good on the international forest protection commitments" we signed In Glasgow
Sits down to sign the EO.
Potus Asks if it's a state park or city park. "City!" say the assembled dignitaries.
Pool escorted out of event at 11:38 am PDT, before event ends. We could hear applause as we walked toward motorcade.
Next up: a 40 minute drive in motorcade to Auburn, WA, for next event.
Motorcade pulled away from Seward Park in Seattle at 11:53 am PDT.
Next stop: Green River College in Auburn, Washington, for POTUS remarks on efforts to "lower costs and give families more breathing room," per guidance. Also: "He will call on Congress to pass his plan to lower health care and energy costs."
Motorcade arrived Green River College at 12:41 PDT.
On our way into Auburn, raucous crowds, signs pro and con. People chanting let's go Brandon. Signs:
"Joe Biden sucks"
"Trump won"
"[Heart symbol] U Joe"
Signs spotted as motorcade departed the neighborhood near Seward Park:
"Vaccines for kids under 5" (sign held by an adult)
"Welcome Mr President to Seward Park" (sign held by cute child)
As always, event viewable at 
From the press office:
In attendance for the President's remarks on Lowering Costs for American Families:
Approximately 170-200 invited guests, local elected officials, community leaders, and faculty and students from Green River College
Jay Inslee, Governor of Washington
Maria Cantwell, U.S. Senator (WA)
Patty Murray, U.S. Senator (WA)
Kim Schrier, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-08)
Elisa Graceffo
Juliana Graceffo, high school senior at Eastlake High
The President
At 1:13 pm PDT POTUS took the stage, with two women introducing him, discussing insulin affordability:
Elisa Graceffo
Juliana Graceffo, high school senior at Eastlake High
Stage set with two American flags, one large on the wall to the left, another standing. On other side of stage is the flag of the State of Washington. Big sign reads "Lowering Costs for American Families."
Event can be viewed live here:
POTUS began speaking at 1:19 pm PDT.
Check against transcript:
"I'm a capitalist. I think if you can make a billion dollars or a million dollars [that's great]... but pay your fair share."
Talks about how much he and his family have used health care over the years. Shoutout to the nursing students in the audience, who respond with a big cheer.
Shoutout to Democratic Rep. Pramila Jayapal, who he said couldn't be here, is visiting family, said she's doing an incredible job. Does not mention that she's chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. Note: we are not in her district.
Cites passage of the American Rescue Plan early in his administration. And how they've expanded enrollment in health coverage via the Affordable Care Act.
"The Affordable Care Act is stronger than it's ever been."
"We are working to fix the family glitch" to help people afford healthcare coverage under the ACA. Says nearly 1 million Americans will see healthcare become more affordable, under his plan.
"We need to keep this fight up." The press criticizes him, he says, "because I'm not partisan enough."
He becomes animated, sounds angry, when talking about the high cost of healthcare for children, due to the cost of the drugs.
"Prescription drugs are outrageously expensive."
Proposes capping cost of insulin to $35/month. "Let's end the days when companies could increase prices with no oversight and no accountability."
"Let's give Medicare the power to negotiate prescription drug prices."
"It's time we got past these absurd limitations." (on negotiating presc drug prices)
Talks about high cost of child care, says he couldn't afford child care back when he was a single dad. Talks about efforts to control inflation.
"I'm more optimistic about America today than I'm been my whole, my whole career.... We're the only nation on earth that's come out stronger" after a crisis.
Blames Putin for high cost of gasoline.
"The reason I'm so optimistic - you are the least prejudiced, the most involved, the most concerned generation in American history."
POTUS remarks wrapped at 1:54 PDT.
After the speech, POTUS had a photo line at Green River College for about a half hour, during which the pool cooled its heels in the filing location.
From the press office:
Participating in a photo line with the President:
Jay Inslee, Governor of Washington
Patty Murray, U.S. Senator (WA)
Maria Cantwell, U.S. Senator (WA)
Suzan DelBene, U.S. Congresswoman (WA-01)
Rick Larsen, U.S. Congressman (WA-02)
Derek Kilmer, U.S. Congressman (
)
Kim Schrier, U.S. Congresswoman (
)
Bruce Harrell, Mayor of Seattle
Nancy Backus, Mayor of Auburn
Dow Constantine, King County Executive
Rod Dembroski, County Councilmember
Mona Das, State Senator
Marko Liias, State Senator
Mark Mullet, State Senator
June Robinson, State Senator
Laurie Jinkins, Speaker of the Washington State House
Debra Entenman, State Representative
Tana Senn, State Representative
At 3:02 pm PDT, the motorcade departed Green River College for Auburn Municipal Airport Landing Zone. From there, we lift to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, where AF1 awaits. Then a 4-hour 40-minute flight to Philadelphia.
A large crowd of protesters shouted from across the street as we pulled away. One sign said "Burisma Joe."
Motorcade arrived Auburn Municipal Airport Landing Zone at 3:20 pm PDT. Pool did not see Potus board M1. We are flying to SeaTac airport separately by Osprey.
From the press office:
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Seattle-Tacoma International Airport:
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Marine One landed at Seattle Tacoma International Airport around 4:20 pm PDT. He road the Beast to AF1 and boarded immediately without engaging with the pool.
Air Force One is wheels up for Philly at 4:33 PDT
Air Force One landed Philadelphia International Airport at 11:50 pm eastern.
Early in the flight, POTUS came back to the press cabin and gaggled OTR for 24 minutes. It's Biden's first such gaggle in press cabin of AF1 since becoming president, per Jeff Mason of Reuters.
That's it for me, as I am returning to Washington. Many thanks to co-poolers Katie Rogers of NYT and Tyler Pager of the Washington Post for their help and good cheer. Tyler is continuing on to Wilmington and will pick now as print pooler.
Good night!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
POTUS walked off AF1 at 12:01 a.m. and headed directly to Marine One. He is traveling to Delaware, where he will spend the weekend.
Press is following in ospreys and was wheels up at 12:06 a.m. and did not see M1 depart.
From the White House —
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
M1 was wheels down at DANG at 12:24 am.
POTUS walked to the beast and motorcade started rolling at 12:28 am
From the White House:
Upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base, the President will be greeted by Col. David Rice, 166th Airlift Wing Director of Staff.
The motorcade dropped POTUS off at his home in Wilmington at 12:42 a.m. and the White House called a lid.
Have a good night.