Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. Per the White House, the following event will take place this afternoon:
"Today, Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice, White House Counsel Dana Remus, and Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of Public Engagement Cedric Richmond will host a virtual roundtable with six formerly incarcerated individuals to discuss the importance of supporting reentry to reduce crime and strengthen our communities. The discussion will highlight President Biden's announcements today granting his first wave of 75 sentence commutations and 3 full pardons and the Administration's major actions to expand second chance opportunities and improve reentry outcomes for Americans who have served their time. The roundtable will be livestreamed on 
 at 3pm ET."
Good afternoon from the White House.
The paucity of pool reports today has a pretty straightforward explanation: a 3pm call time. The president has no public events on his schedule today. If that changes, I will let you know, of course.
Press briefing is at 3 pm.
From the White House: "The President and the Vice President spoke on the phone this afternoon. He wanted to check in and make sure she has everything she needs as she quarantines at home."
To the press briefing.
That's the ballgame, folks. Have a good evening.
Sharing the attached and below background on Secretary Albright's funeral tomorrow, 
 
Contact: Alexis Krieg
Cell: (214) 676-4236
 Funeral of Madeleine Korbel Albright
 Wednesday, April 27, 2022 at 11:00am ET
 Washington National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.
Secretary Madeleine Korbel Albright was a decades-long friend to the Washington National Cathedral and its affiliated schools. She chaired the board of the Beauvoir School in the 1970s, all three of her daughters attended Beauvoir and graduated from the National Cathedral School, and at the time of her death she was a member of the Cathedral Chapter (the institution's governing board).
o 11th Dean of the National Cathedral
Secretary Albright's daughters will speak in birth order (Anne and Alice are identical twins)
o Secretary Albright met Herbie Hancock in 1997, when she hosted the Herbie Hancock Institute of Jazz (formerly Thelonious Monk Institute) in the Diplomatic Reception Rooms of the U.S. Department of State. They became good friends, bonding over the shared belief that jazz is a universal language of freedom and that jazz musicians have been some of America's best global ambassadors. Over the decades, the two worked on many projects together including jazz education for students around the world, and in establishing every April 30th as United Nations/UNESCO International Jazz Day.
Secretary Madeleine K. Albright was born on May 15, 1937, in Prague, Czechoslovakia. Her father, Josef, was a member of the Czechoslovak Foreign Service and served as press attaché in Belgrade, Yugoslavia and later became Ambassador to Yugoslavia. When she was an infant, her family was forced by the Nazis to flee Prague. After the communist coup in 1948, the family immigrated to the United States and eventually settled in Denver, Colorado. Albright became a U.S. citizen in 1957, and earned a B.A. in political science with honors from Wellesley College in 1959. She earned a Ph.D. in Public Law and Government at Columbia University in 1976, as well as a Certificate from its Russian Institute.
Secretary Albright served as chief legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Edmund Muskie (D-ME) from 1976 to 1978. From 1978 to 1981, she served as a staff member in the White House under President Jimmy Carter and on the National Security Council staff under National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski.
In 1982 she was appointed Research Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and Director of its Women in Foreign Service Program. From 1989 to 1992, she served as President of the Center for National Policy. In 1993 she was appointed Ambassador to the United Nations by President Clinton and served in the position until her appointment as Secretary of State in 1997. She was confirmed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 99 to 0 on January 22, 1997, and sworn in the next day. She became, at that time, the highest-ranking woman in the history of the U.S. government. She served in the position for four years and ended her service on January 20, 2001.
As Secretary of State, Albright championed America's alliances, promoted the expansion of NATO, supported non-proliferation efforts, successfully pressed for intervention in Kosovo in 1999, and supported the expansion of free trade and democracy.
After leaving government, Secretary Albright returned to the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service as a Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy, and co-founded Albright Stonebridge Group, part of Dentons Global Advisors, and Albright Capital Management. She continued her lifelong commitment to public service by serving as Chair of the National Democratic Institute and President of the Truman Scholarship Foundation. She was a lifetime trustee of The Aspen Institute, where she established the Aspen Minister's Forum to strengthen diplomatic ties and develop concrete policy recommendations to support key international institutions. In 2009, she established the Albright Institute at Wellesley College to shape the next generation of global leaders. In 2021, she was appointed Chair of the Defense Policy Board. Through it all, Secretary Albright remained a forceful advocate for supporting refugees, strengthening international institutions, and investing in American diplomacy.
Secretary Albright was a seven-time New York Times bestselling author. Her most recent book, Hell and Other Destinations was published in April 2020. Her other books include her autobiography, Madam Secretary: A Memoir (2003); The Mighty and the Almighty: Reflections on America, God, and World Affairs (2006); Memo to the President: How We Can Restore America's Reputation and Leadership (2008); Read My Pins: Stories from a Diplomat's Jewel Box (2009); Prague Winter: A Personal Story of Remembrance and War, 1937-1948 (2012), and Fascism: A Warning (2018).
Secretary Albright is survived by her daughters Anne K. Albright (Geoffrey Watson), Alice P. Albright (Gregory Bowes), Katie Albright (Jake Schatz), and six grandchildren: David and Daniel Bowes, Jack and Jake Watson, Ben and Ellie Schatz. She is also survived by her sister Kathy Silva, her brother John Korbel (Pam Korbel), two nephews, Josef (Magdalena) and Peter Korbel, and a grandniece, Isadora Ana.