Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from a cloudy, but warm Washington. I'll be your pooler today.
There has already been a slight tweak to POTUS schedule because of the weather.
The President will now fly on Air Force One from DANG to JBA, and then motorcade to the North Grounds.
The in-town pool call time has been pushed back to 1:15.
The rest of POTUS' schedule for today remains unchanged today.
Email me or call with any questions.
Just a quick scheduling update.
Today at 3:30 PM, the President will meet with leaders and members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
From a White House official:
The President is hosting Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan for lunch today.
The pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors for POTUS event with Tampa Bay Lightning to celebrate last season's Stanley Cup victory.
You can watch the event here, which means you are on your own for quotes.
From a White House official:
The President had lunch with Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan, who was in DC for meetings with Administration officials, to hear about the Mayor's Federal priorities and the success of President Biden's American Rescue Plan in the City of Detroit in reducing crime, helping Americans get back to work, and revitalizing Detroit's small business community.
The event celebrating is the Tampa Bay Lightning's back-to-back Stanley Cups is starting as the players are walking down the steps to the stage on the South Lawn.
Your pooler did not get a two-minute warning.
Your pooler has also asked for a list of attendees. Will pass it along as soon as I get it.
POTUS has began his remarks.
Reminder, you can watch the event at 
Per White House, here is a list of speakers at today's event.
Speaking program:
The President
Jeff Vinik, Owner, Tampa Bay Lightning
Ryan McDonagh, Alternate Captain, Tampa Bay Lighting
Presenting a jersey and a silver stick to the President:
Steven Stamkos, Captain, Tampa Bay Lightning
Victor Hedman, Alternate Captain, Tampa Bay Lightning
The event celebrating the Lightning ended at 2:30. POTUS exited without taking questions
Today's White House press briefing will now begin at 3:15.
Two-minute warning to briefing
The daily White House press briefing has begun.
The White House press briefing ended at 4:08.
A travel/photo lid has been called with the exception of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus members who will be speaking after their meeting with POTUS ends.
Two minute warning to gaggle with Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
Per White House
The following CHC leaders and members are speaking at the Stakeout after meeting with the President:
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Chair
Representative Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Deputy Chair
Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Vice Chair of Diversity and Inclusion
Representative Darren Soto (FL-09), Vice Chair of Policy
Representative Teresa Leger Fernandez (NM-03), Vice Chair of Communications
Representative Pete Aguilar (CA-31), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair
Representative Tony Cárdenas (CA-29)
Here are some quotes from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus gaggle. I've also attached an otter recording for anyone who wants the full gaggle
Raul Ruiz said the CHC spoke with POTUS on immigration, infrastructure, Hispanic students and healthcare.
He said they presented POTUS with executive orders on immigration reform
"The executive orders and actions presented will inspire younger generations to engage with us and the Biden administration, empower them and send a clear message they are not forgotten," he said.
Nanette Diaz Barragan said the caucus received "very positive feedback" from the president on the orders
Adriano Espaillat says they presented orders on Temporary Protective Status and reuniting 4 million people with their families
"United families are stronger and when families are united our country is stronger as well so we are hopeful that two executive orders will begin the TPS designation and the process to petition families, four million on them waiting to come into the United States is fast tracked," he said.
That's all from the White House on a beautiful day with lots of guests.
It was a pleasure being your pooler.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from a cloudy and chilly Wilmington.
POTUS' motorcade is headed to Delaware Air National Guard base where he will take Air Force One to JBA and, from there, will motorcade to the White House.
At 9:49 am we are rolling…
POTUS arrived at DANG at 9:59 am after an uneventful motorcade.
Biden, in a suit and tie, paused and appeared to say something in response to a question about Macron's victory but pool could not hear over the noise of the plane.
We're on baby Air Force One - tail number 90016 - and are taking off shortly.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President on Air Force One to Joint Base Andrews:
Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor and Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Marc Gustafson, Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Air Force One landed at JBA at 10:34 am.
Flight was quiet with no visitors to press cabin.
For the record: AF1 took off from DANG at 10:10 am.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Col. William "Chris" McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
President Biden took a few questions. As always please double check the transcript.
On if he talked to Macron: "I feel good about the French election, number one. Number two, I tried to talk to him last night. I spoke to his staff and he was at the Eiffel Tower having a good time. And I'm going to be talking to him today."
Asked if he spoke with Secretaries Blinken and Austin since their trip: "I'm going to be doing that now. I spoke with them before and on the way."
Asked how he thought the trip went, he said it "went good."
At 10:49 am we are in the motorcade, rolling to the White House.
Thanks to co-poolers for their help with the transcript.
The motorcade returned to the White House at 11:08.
Pool did not see POTUS exit the motorcade.
Lots of people were out on the street filming his arrival on their phones.
Thanks to all my co-poolers for their help this weekend. Handing POTUS off to the in town pool…