Today, news outlets in Wisconsin and Minnesota are reporting about the President and First Lady's trip to Superior, Wisconsin where they highlighted how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is building a better America.
During the trip, the President and First Lady visited the Blatnik bridge, which serves as a critical link for the community and local economy, but is nearing the end of its usability. Thanks to President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, states will soon begin repairing over 1,500 bridges in communities across the country. The law also supports a number of projects in the Duluth-Superior region including restoring the St. Louis River and Great Lakes, investing in port infrastructure for the Port of Superior, and help improve climate resilience in the region.
President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden spent Wednesday afternoon in Wisconsin to put the focus on how the commander-in-chief's hallmark bipartisan infrastructure law can help fix roads and bridges in the Twin Ports. "When the Husky oil refinery exploded in Superior back in 2018, this bridge is the one many of you took to get your families to safety…the bridge is 61 years old and at the end of its useful life," Joe Biden said… President Biden said the fix can finally be funded with the bipartisan infrastructure package he signed into law.
"After decades of decline, we are rebuilding this city ... building roads and bridges," Superior Mayor Jim Paine said. "We're building the most innovative broadband network, and we are cleaning the greatest of the Great Lakes, all with the bipartisan infrastructure bill that President Biden and this Congress managed to deliver to cities like Superior all across the country."
Biden noted that the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will bring more than $5 billion worth of projects and jobs to Wisconsin during the next five years, likely benefiting the Blatnik Bridge upgrades. "You know when the Husky oil refinery exploded in Superior back in 2018, this bridge was the one that many of you took to get your families to safety," Biden said. "And so you know it matters."
Julia Lean, a welder who has lived in the Superior area for the last six years, met Biden and shook his hand Wednesday. Calling herself a blue-collar Democrat, she said she sees Biden as someone focused on tamping down division and building back the country.
Gordy Smith, a member of International Union of Painters and Allied Trades, Local 106, introduced the president before his speech. "For many years, those of us in the building and construction trades have heard of this massive infrastructure investment," he said. "Those promises never came. President Biden and his team finally delivered on that promise."
Less than 24 hours after making his first State of the Union address, President Joe Biden made a stop in Wisconsin… He also made a stop at the Blatnik Bridge which he pointed to as a critical benefit of the infrastructure law. The bridge is a key link between Superior and Duluth, two critical port cities on the Great Lakes.
While keeping a close eye on the situation in Ukraine, President Joe Biden hit the road Wednesday for Wisconsin, less than 24-hours after his State of the Union speech. President Biden talked up his trillion-dollar infrastructure plan passed by Congress to fix aging bridges, like the Blatnik Bridge that connects Duluth and Superior.
Biden discussed how the bipartisan infrastructure will improve roads and bridges and create "good-paying union jobs". "There are 979 bridges in Wisconsin, 661 bridges in Minnesota that are in poor condition," said Biden. Along with nearly 7,000 miles of highway between your two states that need repair. And now after years of talking about infrastructure, we're finally getting it done."
[President Biden] highlighted the $1 trillion infrastructure law he signed in November and how it will help the 60-year-old Blatnik Bridge, already operating with load restrictions and in need of truss repair. The law would send about $4.8 billion to Minnesota and an estimated $5.4 billion to Wisconsin for roads and bridges over the next five years… the mayor of Superior described his city of nearly 27,000 as "the future of the United States of America."
Biden traveled to the Twin Ports Wednesday to talk about the expected impact of his $1.2 trillion infrastructure spending package on Minnesota, Wisconsin and the nation... Biden also used Wednesday's visit to stress the importance of growing manufacturing in this country, including a push to build more electric vehicles. He also said a top priority is to get control of the recent surge in inflation.
Minnesota alone expects $7.3 billion from the $1.2 trillion law, more than 80% of it requiring a state dollar match, according to an estimate from Minnesota Management and Budget. Most of the funds to Minnesota are for roads and bridges, but there's also funding for broadband, airports and more.
According to Mayor Paine, the future of Superior may look different thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. "The President sees cities like ours that experienced decades of decline and are finally bouncing back. With investments like this, we're just getting started," said Mayor Paine.
The President… touted the other priorities in the law, including the historic investment it makes in the Great Lakes: $1 billion to clean and restore these crucial bodies of water. $500 million was earmarked to upgrade the Soo Locks, which Biden said are so critical to moving goods around the region. $8.4 million is headed to the Port of Duluth Superior, along with another $12 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to reconstruct the dock yard and the vessel wall.
President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden made a trip to Wisconsin Wednesday to talk about infrastructure, specifically the Blatnik Bridge that connects Duluth to Superior, Wisconsin. The president touted his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, or BIL, that provides $40 billion for bridge investments.
After landing in Duluth, Biden's motorcade made a brief stop at the Blatnik Bridge that carries Interstate 535 between Duluth and Superior….The 61-year-old bridge "is at the end of its useful life," Biden said, adding that both states will use infrastructure money to repair or replace it.
[President Biden] spoke about investments in the St. Louis River, Superior port infrastructure, and the Great Lakes during his speech at UWS, which was by invitation only. He echoed comments by Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown that "it's time to bury the label 'rust belt.'"