 What did you give up for Lent?
Mr. President, how worried are you about——
 What did you give up for Lent?
 All sweets.
All sweets?
 And I'm—you know me, I start off with dessert.
So no ice cream?
 No ice cream. Nothing.
What about Sunday? Do you make an exception on Sunday?
Mr. President, how worried are you about President Zelenskiy? And do you think he should stay in Ukraine, or do you think he should try to leave?
 I think it's his judgement to make, and we're doing everything we can to help him.
 What kind of danger is he in? What——
Have you made any other attempts to reach China or talk to them about the situation at all?
 Not directly yet. We're—the staff has been in contact with them.
Do you support permanent U.S. military presence in Poland and other Eastern European countries now after what's happening in Ukraine?
 We've always been there. We've always been in all the NATO countries.
I'm talking about permanent bases.
 No, I—that's a decision for NATO to make.
 Do you think they——
Would you consider getting rid of vaccine mandates?
 Mr. President, what did you mean when you said——
I'm sorry.
Mr. President, are you considering banning Russian oil imports?
 There's—nothing is off the table.
Do you think that there's a——
 Vaccine mandates, sir?
Do you believe Russia is committing war crimes in Ukraine?
 We are following it very closely. It's early to say that.
 There are 2,000 civilians——
Pope Francis asked for prayers and fasting today for the people of Ukraine on this Ash Wednesday. Pope Francis is asking for prayers and fasting. What's your reaction to that that, sir?
 I think he's right. I was with the Cardinal this morning. He came over to give me ashes, and we both prayed for that, for the people of Ukraine.
And last night, you continued to support 
 v. 
. As a Catholic, why do you support abortion as a Catholic, defying church teachings?
 Well, I tell you what, I don't want to get in a debate with you on theology. But you know—well, anyway.
But why?
 I'm not going to make a——
 Why support abortion as a pro-life——
 I'm not going to make a judgement for other people.
If you're Catholic, why defy church teaching?
Mr. President, do you believe Russia is intentionally targeting civilian areas? There are over 2,000 civilian deaths right now according to——
It's clear they are.
Thank you. Thank you.