Since his first day in office, President Biden relentlessly focused on an industrial strategy to revitalize our manufacturing base, strengthen critical supply chains, and position U.S. workers and businesses to compete and lead globally in the 21st century. This whole-of-government effort is leading to an historic recovery in domestic manufacturing—since President Biden took office, the economy added 
 – the most in nearly 30 years. The U.S. economy grew at the fastest pace in nearly 40 years in 2021, and manufacturing as a share of U.S. GDP has 
.
The Biden-Harris 
, Made in America policies, and transformational investments such as the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law have catalyzed historic domestic investments by the private sector to bring good-paying manufacturing jobs back home. This includes nearly $80 billion in planned investments in semiconductor manufacturing and more than $100 billion in announced investments in electric vehicles, batteries, and critical minerals since 2021.
Echoing President Biden's call in this week's State of the Union speech, Congress must build on this historic progress by passing the Bipartisan Innovation Act. This legislation will make record investments in emerging technologies, critical supply chains, and American manufacturing to level the playing field for American workers and businesses and outcompete China and the rest of the world in the 21st Century.
The Federal government spends more than $600 billion each year buying goods and services.
President Biden believes that when taxpayers foot the bill, that spending should invest in American workers, manufacturers, and small businesses. In his first week in office, he signed 
5, 
, initiating a review of Buy American policy and establishing the first-ever Made in America Office in the Office of Management and Budget.
Since January 2021, the Made in America Office, codified by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, has already helped agencies implement Made in America requirements, launched a new website designed to provide transparency into exceptions from Made in America laws, and created a new Made in America Council to ensure we identify the best ideas and practices from across the Federal government to implement Made in America initiatives. The actions to date implement a whole-of-government agenda designed to maximize the use of taxpayer dollars on domestic products and services, strengthen our industrial base, and create good-paying, union jobs for Americans.
This rule is also consistent with international trade laws and will bring the U.S. in line with the domestic procurement practices of peer countries. It will allow the U.S. to use its purchasing power to seed and grow new and strategic industries, while continuing our work with allies and partners to diversify and strengthen international supply chains to mitigate the global disruptions we've seen from COVID-19, climate change, and geopolitical conflict.
To support this work, the Small Business Administration has created a new manufacturing office in its federal contracting division and agencies will work with the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership to find and develop American sources for government needs.
Last year, the Biden-Harris Administration announced 
 to increase equity in Federal procurement, including increasing goals for Federal procurement, increasing transparency, and supporting new entrants to the Federal marketplace.