Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House!
I'll be your print pooler today. It's a balmy spring day in D.C. The temperature is 63 degrees and the weather is partly cloudy skies.
Below is the public schedule for POTUS. Note the briefing with Jen Psaki at 2 pm and the business roundtable at 6 pm. Your pooler will let you know if anything changes.
---
From the White House: The call with President Biden and leaders of UK, France, Germany and Italy ran from 11:14 am ET to 12:12 pm ET.
Your pooler placed a request in with the press office seeking additional information on the nature of the discussion and any agreements or deliverables. In response, a White House official said more information is expected to shared ih the upcoming daily briefing.
Briefing with Jen Psaki and Deputy National Security advisor Anne Neuberger began at 2:45.
The briefing concluded at 3:40.
Motorcade started rolling at 5:56. No sighting of POTUS.
Motorcade arrived at the Business Roundtable at 6:00 after passing crowds of onlookers who were along the streets enjoying the warm weather and newly bloomed cherry blossoms. Many of the observers stopped to take photos and video of POTUS passing by.
Pool has been escorted into the building and is now holding in an auditorium where an estimated 75 people in business outfits are seated awaiting POTUS.
The White House has informed me the event will be live-streamed, so your pooler won’t provide quotes but any additional color.
POTUS, wearing a navy suit and blue tie, entered the room at 6:09 with the Business Roundtable CEO Josh Bolton to the applause of those in attendance.
From the White House:
Traveled with the President to the Business Roundtable Quarterly Meeting:
Pool escorted out of the room at 6:23 as POTUS was prepared to take questions from the audience.
Link to Otter recording and *very* rough transcript of his opening remarks:
Pool escorted to the motorcade and now holding.
Motorcade starting rolling at 7:15. No sighting of POTUS.
Motorcade returned to the White House at 7:20 after passing more crowds of onlookers. No sighting of POTUS.
The White House called a travel-photo lid at 7:27.
Enjoy the rest of your evening.