Pool Reports by 
, 
From the White House press office:
President Biden's secure video call with President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China convened at 9:03 AM EDT.
From the White House press office:
President Biden's secure video call with President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China concluded at 10:53 AM EDT.
The White House has called for pool and pre-credentialed media to meet at the stakeout at 1:10 pm for a pool spray at the top of Biden's health research event.
The event is scheduled to start at 1:30 pm at the South Court Auditorium in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building across Executive Drive from the West Wing.
Here is White House description of the event: 
The White House passes along the information below about three bills Biden will sign in the Oval Office today. These signings are not on the public schedule and your pooler has not seen plans for press access to the signings at this point. They appear to be closed press.
Today in the Oval Office, President Biden will sign three bipartisan bills into law:
The following individuals will join the President in the Oval Office for the bill signings:
Biden largely stuck to his brief prepared remarks and didn't answer questions.
Biden walked on stage in the South Court Auditorium at about 1:40 pm. Five desks were arranged facing the screen.
Biden walked over and shook hands with four people at the other desks and sat at one of them.
Biden spoke to the screen and participants for about three minutes on the creation of ARPA-H, a new health research agency designed to advance research into cures for cancer and other diseases and address demographic disparites in health care treatment outcomes. (The motto of the agency, according to the screens is "precent, treat, cure.")
Biden: "This week I signed into law a bipartisan government funding bill that demonstrated again to the American people that Democrats and Republicans and Independents can come together to do some big things. This bill includes something I've believed in for a long, long time - ARPA-H."
After Biden finished speaking, reporters shouted questions about his virtual meeting with Xi and the war in Ukraine. He did not answer. As the last reporters filed out, your pooler saw Biden look up at the other people on stage with him and say "any questions about ARPA-H?"
On the video screen as Biden came out were:
Dr. Stefanie Tompkins, director of DARPA
and
Brandon Prestwood, hand proprioception and touch interfaces patient
From the White House press office ---
In attendance for the President's meeting on Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H):
The White House provided a photo of President Biden's video meeting with China's President Xi Jinping today.
I've attached the photo to this email and this tweet.
Biden walked out of the Oval Office at 5:05 pm, putting on his aviators.
He did not stop to answer questions from reporters. A few shouted questions: "How was the call with Xi?" "Is Xi trustworthy?"
Biden briefly broke into a jog on the South Lawn as he went over to the east side of the portico to greet a group of people outside to watch the Marine One departure.
He shook hands and took photos with those gathered there for a few minutes. At one point, Biden brought four people under the rope line and then walked them over to see the inside of Marine One.
Marine One lifted off at 5:16 pm. He is scheduled to spend the weekend in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware.
Passing this along from the White House press office ---
The family that joined the President briefly on Marine One was the family of Dr. Lorna Breen. They attended the bill signing of the Dr. Lorna Breen Health Care Provider Protection Act earlier today.
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Happy Friday evening from Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where the president will be spending the weekend. It's a chillier-than-advertised 57 degrees.
Marine One landed here at Gordons Pond State Park at 6:09 p.m. President Biden stepped off the helicopter at 6:11 p.m. and the motorcade got rolling at 6:13 p.m.
And a travel/photo lid was called 6:16 p.m.