Following the Biden Administration outlining the 
 from Congress, doctors, hospitals, and public health leaders have overwhelmingly come out in support of President Biden's push for emergency supplemental funding to protect Americans and prepare for new waves. Administration officials have made clear that without this funding, the United States will not have enough additional boosters or variant specific vaccines, if needed, for all Americans. And, the federal government will be unable to purchase additional life-saving treatments or sustain the testing capacity built over the last 14 months.
: "Now is 
 for COVID relief… We—non-governmental, non-partisan health professionals and researchers—urge you to quickly appropriate the billions necessary for a robust COVID response in 2022, and just as importantly, the development of an infrastructure to more effectively confront future biosecurity and pandemic threats."
: "
 to ensure that the healthcare system has the resources it needs to continue to care for their patients, especially as we continue to manage Covid-19 in communities across the nation."
: "I write in 
 for COVID-19 prevention and response activities."
: "Robust Covid Supplemental funding is necessary to maintain the federal government's ongoing response to the COVID pandemic and enable us to proactively respond to the threats of future variants or surges. Without additional funding, patients will not have access to the vaccines, treatments, and testing needed to mitigate the harmful effects of COVID both in the United States and globally. 
."
: "
 to continue to respond to COVID-19, while also protecting current commitments from the federal government, including State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds."
 : "Let's finally ditch the needless cycles of panic and neglect. As a start, 
to combat the pandemic in the months ahead."
: "
 these past two years. Without this funding, the government will be unable to provide future doses of vaccines to fight COVID-19 variants, unable to provide tests and treatments to those who need them, and unable to effectively fight this virus like we have been."
: "We've come too far in the fight against COVID to go back. 
 to make sure Americans have access to vaccines, boosters, tests, and more – ensuring we continue to move forward."
, University of Minnesota: "
 and it will burn you… It would be going out and purchasing fire trucks the moment the 911 calls come in to the station."
, Yale University School of Medicine: "If they [Congress] allow this to get where money actually runs out, 
."
, George Washington: "But 
, because we know it's only a matter of time before the next emergency arrives."
, former Harvard University epidemiologist: "To think we're at a stage to stop appropriating funds and advocating for pandemic preparedness, I think, 
"
, University of California, San Francisco: "
 to stay vigilant in this endemic stage of the virus with surveillance, vaccination and treatment."
, Brown University: "I hope that we pull back before what little safety net we have, against #covid19, is shredded. 
. Waiting until another surge hits, is already too late."
, Baylor College: "Note to @HouseGOP, @HouseDemocrats, @SenateGOP, @SenateDems: BA.2 sub variant rising with cases rising sharply in Europe. From past experience we must anticipate this is in store for America. Imperative to fund these measures. 
. If BA.2 and cases climb, if the House/Senate turn their backs and cross their arms, and we can't get Paxlovid, mabs, or boosters, this will be very destabilizing for the nation."
: "
 of the pandemic (like now). Congress and our government need to take the steps we know work now and fund the infrastructure to prevent a worse surge."