Pool Reports by 
, 
Hey all.
Your in-town pooler has arrived at the WH, and we are gathering.
POTUS is scheduled to depart from Marine One around 8:40am, where he’ll head to Joint Base Andrews to board Air Force One and begin a foreign trip that starts in Brussels.
It’s a 50 degree, mostly cloudy — with the sun trying to peek out — start to the morning.
Will update shortly.
POTUS walked out and spoke briefly, responding to two questions.
He was asked about his message to world leaders, and he said he would deliver it face to face when he arrives: "All I have to say, I'm going to say it when I get there." He indicated he would talk to reporters later — "I'll be happy to talk to you guys when I get back."
Asked about how concerned he is and how high the threat of chemical warfare is, he said: "I think it's a real threat."
He then walked away and boarded Marine One, which lifted at 8:51am.
Traveling with the President on Marine One:
Handing off to out-of-town pool.
Flagging the gaggle has started on AF1, which is heading to Brussels. Jake Sullivan has started speaking, and will be followed by Karine Jean-Pierre. It’s being livestreamed here:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews, where it’s windy, overcast and 51 degrees.
Marie One arrived about 9:02 a.m.
President Joe Biden, in blue suit and tie, boarded Air Force One at 9:05 a.m.
Secretary of State Blinken is also on the plane (see full list below).
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route to Belgium.
We will be wheels up for Brussels, momentarily.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival to Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President to Brussels, Belgium on Air Force One:
Air Force One touched down at 9:04 p.m. in Brussels, Belgium. (about 6 hours in the air, plus the 5-hour time change).
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled on the flight.
Sullivan confirmed that the new sanctions regime being announced on Thursday will target political leaders and oligarchs, but he wasn’t more specific. He stressed the president is taking a vigilant approach to China and reiterated it would be a topic of discussion with European leaders.
Sullivan ruled out any new U.S. forces being sent to Eastern Europe in the near term. He also said Biden in Brussels on Friday will speak specifically about European energy solutions before he departs for Warsaw, Poland.
At 9:19 p.m., President Joe Biden stepped off the plane and walked to a long line of greeters.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Brussels Airport:
Getting in the vans soon and heading to Biden’s overnight location.
The motorcade left the airport at 9:25 p.m. and drove about 8 km into Brussels, passing the Europa building. Dozens of people along the route — including a big crowd outside a brasserie — lined up to watch.
The pool dropped off Biden at his overnight and a lid was called at 9:47 p.m.
Have a great evening.
From a White House official:
Prime Minister Alexander de Croo of Belgium welcomed President Biden upon his arrival in Brussels. President Biden thanked the Prime Minister for Belgium’s robust support in the EU for sanctions against Russia and for ongoing coordination in providing security assistance to Ukraine.