Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy almost St. Patrick's Day. I am today's print pooler. Below is the schedule of events. Jen Psaki will also have a 2:30 p.m. press briefing.
Pool is gathering for President Biden's upcoming remarks on Ukraine in the South Court Auditorium. They will be broadcast on C-SPAN as well as the on the White House website.
We have been told there will be a delay on Biden's Ukraine remarks, so we are not going over there yet. I will update when they provide more info.
The new time for Biden's Ukraine remarks is 12:30 pm
We are gathering again to head over for President Biden's postponed Ukraine remarks, which are now supposed to happen at 12:30 pm. You can watch it on the White House website
President Biden began his remarks at 1:01 pm. He is standing at a podium with the presidential seal in the South Court auditorium. There are American flags on either side of him, and a blue backdrop that features the White House symbol.
The Secretary of State, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff are standing to the side.
Biden ended his remarks on Ukraine aid at 1:09, and then signed paperwork onstage. He would not answer shouted questions about whether he plans to send aircraft to Ukraine
Those on stage with him were:
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark Milley
Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks
The Secretary of Defense is traveling for the NATO Defense Ministerial meeting so he is unable to attend, the White House press office says.
Pool is gathering now to head to the East Room for the Violence Against Women Act event, which will be broadcast on the White House website.
Biden entered the event at 2:05 pm with Ruth Glenn, who is CEO of a group that fights domestic violence. Legislators in the room include US Senators Bennett, Schumer, Murkowski, Leahy, Feinstein and Durbin. Rep. Nadler is here, too. Glenn introduced Biden, and he took to the podium at 2:09 pm
The White House press office passed along a more complete list of people attending the East Room event:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization Commemoration Event:
White House press office says the daily briefing is now scheduled for 3 pm.
Biden ended his remarks at 2:34 pm. He greeted people in the crowd and shook their hands on his way out.
President Biden spent a long time shaking hands and chatting with people after his remarks in the East Room. Among those he chatted with were Reps. Jackson Lee & Speier and Sens. Whitehouse and Leahy. He left the room at 2:55 pm
The 2 minute warning has been given for the daily briefing
Jen Psaki's briefing started at 3:09 pm
Psaki's briefing ended at 3:53 PM.
Lunch lid until 6 PM has been announced.
Pool is gathering now for the trip to the National Building Museum where President Biden will address the Ireland Funds 30th National Gala.
The President emerged from the White House at 7:04 pm and got into his limo with the First Lady. Motorcade departed at 7:05 pm.
Motorcade arrived at 7:10 pm. Pool was ushered into the building through a side door and did not see the President leave his limo
The stage where Biden will speak is decorated with green and blue banners. The main floor of the building museum is filled with tables. Guys at the tables are wearing tuxedos, women are wearing dresses. Many of those dresses are green. Folks in the crowd included Terry McAuliffe and Nancy Pelosi. Guys are wearing tuxedos, women are wearing dresses There are large signs that say "Welcome, 30th National Gala, Celebrating the ties, heritage, and friendship between the island of Ireland and the United States."
Tables at the event appear to be sponsored by organizations, including Accenture, Ireland Inc., and Kerry (I am assuming the county, not the politician.). A back area that appeared to have bar food featured Kerrygold cheese. se
The crowd was hushed at 7:35 PM. The organization's CEO, Caitriona Fottrell introduced Biden as one of Ireland's greatest friends. She discussed how his family crossed the ocean, as many others did, in search of opportunities and welcomed him to the stage at 7:38 PM to the strains of "Hail to the Chief."
Bidens' remarks are being livestreamed on the White House website, so you can see them there.
The White House press people say Ireland's Taoiseach, Micheál Martin, is at this event. Also, my last press report should have been numbered #17. Sorry about that.
Biden stopped speaking at 7:54 pm. We were immediately hustled into the motorcade, which left at 7:58 pm
Motorcade arrived at the White House at 8:02 pm. Biden is now inside. We did not see him leave his limo
Lid was called at 8:09 pm. Have a good night everyone!