Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House — I'll be your pooler today.
President Biden is scheduled to deliver remarks at the National League of Cities Congressional City Conference at 2:10 p.m., and will head to a DNC fundraiser later this evening. Full daily guidance from the WH is below:
Pool will now gather at the Palm Room Doors at 1:10 p.m.
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors to head to the National League of Cities Congressional City Conference at the Marriott Marquis. The event will be livestreamed and Biden's address is scheduled to begin at 2:10 p.m.
Pool is still holding in the vans awaiting departure for the National League of Cities conference.
No glimpse of Biden yet.
Biden emerged from the Oval at 1:43pm and got into the car.
Motorcade is rolling to the Marriott Marquis at 1:44pm.
After a quick and uneventful ride, the motorcade arrived at the Marriott Marquis at 1:51 pm.
Lots of onlookers out on a sunny and warm-ish day in DC, many taking video on their phones.
On arrival, pool was escorted into the ballroom where Biden is scheduled to speak at 2:10 pm. We did not get a look at Biden exiting the car.
The WH passes along:
Traveling with the President to the National League of Cities Congressional City Conference:
Also per the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Biden, wearing a blue suit, light blue tie, and black facemask, took the stage at 2:31 p.m. to a standing ovation.
He was introduced by National League of Cities President and Union City, Ga., Mayor Vince Williams.
Biden's remarks were preceded on stage by a brief Q&A between Williams and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and a speech by Domestic Policy Council Director Susan Rice.
Will send along any color. Live stream is here:
Biden finished speaking at 2:57 pm after about 26 minutes of remarks.
About 17 mins into the speech, scattered boos were heard from the crowd at the mention of Vladimir Putin's name, as Biden attributed rising gas prices to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Biden also briefly acknowledged an audience member who yelled "Yeah!" at the president's mention of Intel's commitment to invest in building factories in Ohio.
We're headed back to the motorcade.
Motorcade departed at 3pm
Briefing time update per the WH:
The press briefing will start after the President returns from the National League of Cities Congressional City Conference, and after the NSC Background Call on China concludes.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 3:07pm after a short and uneventful ride.
Pool got a brief look at Biden from afar as he headed back inside.
[
]
Livestream is here: 
The briefing wrapped at 4:10 pm after about 45 minutes.
The WH sends along the following:
The President signed H.R. 3665, the Jennifer Moreno and Kathleen Bruyere Naming Bill, an Act to designate the medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in San Diego, California, as the Jennifer Moreno Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and to support the designation of a component of such medical center in honor of Kathleen Bruyere today in the Oval Office.
In attendance for the signing:
Rep. Mike Levin (CA-49)
Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52)
Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51)
The President signed S. 854, the Methamphetamine Response Act of 2021, which designates methamphetamine as an emerging drug threat, today in the Oval Office.
In attendance for the signing:
Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52)
[
]
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors to head to the DNC fundraiser.
Motorcade rolling at 7:42 pm for what's likely to be a very short drive.
Biden's remarks at the fundraiser will not be live-streamed. Will send as much quotes/color as possible and try to send along a recording of the full speech afterward as well.
Per the WH:
Traveling with the President to Hotel Washington for a DNC fundraiser:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs at the NSC
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning
Motorcade arrived at the Hotel Washington at 7:45pm, after a trip of a few city blocks.
Pool is holding inside the hotel, ahead of Biden's remarks.
Pool was ushered into the fundraiser at 7:59pm, where Biden had just begun speaking to a group of 18 seated at two long tables, as well as four virtual attendees.
Biden, seated at the head of the table, spoke for roughly 9 minutes, largely about his climate agenda. At the outset, he called the climate crisis "the existential threat to humanity. That's not hyperbole."
Biden also spoke to the urgency of slowing the planet's warming, saying "Our grandchildren will never forgive us and the world will change."
Biden later mentioned that he has a call with a foreign leader at 8:40pm. Am asking for additonao details and will pass along.
More quotes to come.
In interim, WH passes along the names of two attendees.
Introducing Biden at the event was: Elizabeth "Lise" Strickler, Co-Founder, Three Cairns Group
Also asking Biden a question as the pool left (could not hear the specifics of the question): Nathaniel "Nat" Simons, co-founder, Prelude Ventures
Attached is a recording of Biden's remarks.
On his climate agenda, Biden said there's "a long way to go" and that he's running into some obstacles.
Biden at one point referenced Russia's invasion of Ukraine as an example for "why we need to get off our dependence on fossil fuels."
He also said he's going to continue to take executive action on climate "where I can," but did not offer specifics.
As always, check quotes against the recording and transcript.
Pool is heading back to the vans.
Motorcade departed the hotel at 8:59pm.
Motorcade pulled back into the White House at 9:01 pm, and we have a lid at 9:03 pm.
Have a good night all