Pool Reports by 
, 
Vice President Harris entered the south court auditorium at 3:01pm for the Equal Pay Day summit.
Jennifer Klein, co chair of the White House Gender Policy Council introduced her.
Event is being livestreamed at 
Details from the VP guidance—
, the Vice President will host the White House Equal Pay Day Summit, where she will deliver remarks. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh, Office of Personnel Management Director Kiran Ahuja, and Co-Chair of the White House Gender Policy Council Jen Klein will also deliver remarks. These remarks in South Court Auditorium will be pooled press.
, the Vice President will participate in a conversation with current and former members of the United States Women’s National Team at the Equal Pay Day Summit. This conversation in South Court Auditorium will be pooled press.
Harris spoke for 8 minutes. She left the stage and then Labor Sec Walsh took the stage to deliver remarks.
Former and current members of the US Womens Soccer Team are in the audience, names below.
Some quotes from Harris:
"I'll begin with a simple truth, our economy just has not been working as it should for the women of our nation"
"Today on average, working women who are working full time year-round make just 83 cents for every dollar that a man makes."
"As one must recognize, lower wages means working women have less money."
"For so many women, the gender wage gap acts as a virtual tax"
She said the wage gap is "not just a moral issue, it's also a business one"
Harris said that President Biden will sign an EO aimed to limit the use of salary history in employment decisions for federal contractors.
"Pay transparency creates accountability and accountability, well, that drives progress"
"We can build a more fair, more efficient, and more equitable economy."
Passing along—
On background from a WH Official:
Vice President Harris is meeting with and holding a conversation with the U.S Women's National Soccer Team.
- Margaret Purce, U.S. Women's National Team player
- Briana Scurry, former U.S. Women's National Team player
- Cindy Parlow Cone, President, U.S. Soccer Federation & former U.S. Women's National Team player
- Julie Foudy, former U.S. Women's National Team player
- Kelley O'Hara, U.S. Women's National Team player
And more to pass along --
President Biden and Vice President Harris have long championed equal pay as a cornerstone of their commitment to ensuring all people have a fair and equal opportunity to get ahead. Today at 
the Vice President will lead an Equal Pay Day Summit, which will be hosted by the Gender Policy Council. The Summit will bring together partners across the country who are taking critical steps to tackle pay discrimination, create good-paying jobs, and support families' access to care. She will also participate in a conversation with the United States Women's National Soccer Team. 
Additionally, today the Biden-Harris Administration 
 to promote women's employment and support working families across the country. Here are some highlights:
Read more on the 
.

The Vice President has a long record addressing pay equity:
Pool was ushered out of the room for about 12 minutes and then returned.
The 5 soccer players were seated with Harris on stage and Megan Rapinoe and Alex Morgan joined the conversation virtually.
Harris asked Kelley O'Hara about the fight they had to reach the settlement. O'Hara said they were fighting for equal pay, as well as equal treatment.
Harris applauded Cindy Parlow Cone for being re-elected president of the US Soccer Federation.
Briana Scurry said she still considers USWNT her team, and others agreed.
"I consider it my team too," Harris said and the group laughed.
Harris asked about what the risks of the lawsuit was and Scurry said having your name on a legal document creates extra work on top of playing and winner soccer games.
Harris:
"To require that that would take a lawsuit… means that she's gotta do her job everyday, whatever that job is and whatever that industry is, and deal with a lawsuit"
"The vulnerability to put your name on a legal document… all because you want to get paid equal pay for equal work and what that requires of that woman, beyond doing a good job… it's a subtle but important point."
Harris asked Rapinoe about lessons for women in other industries from their experience and Rapinoe (who was muted for a second) said connecting stories with other women will lead to more success.
Rapinoe: "To just say, Madam Vice President... I think it just speaks to a changing landscape that we're all part of"
Harris asked Morgan, who was wearing a jersey and just got off the field, to compare fighting for equal pay and fighting on the soccer team.
The event ended at 3:58pm.
Please check all quotes.