Pool Reports by 
, 
The briefing scheduled for 2pm is on time. 2 minute warning
The briefing ended at 2:52pm.
We have a dinner lid until 6:15p, ahead of this pooled event on POTUS' schedule:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening. I'm your in-town pooler for President Biden's remarks at the 10th Annual National Vigil for All Victims of Gun Violence.
Motorcade to Saint Mark's Episcopal Church departed at 6:52. Didn't see POTUS enter the motorcade.
POTUS arrived at the vigil at 7:00.
He traveled via motorcade with:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Stefanie Feldman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Domestic Policy Advisor
Jamie Citron, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Sen. Chris Murphy begins with a story about then Biden in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook shooting, recalling he delayed a flight hours to talk with families who lost children to gun violence. Says the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act would not have happened without Biden.
Murphy introduces Hagerty, a second grader at the time of the Sandy Hook shooting.
"Thankfully we have a President who does more than send thoughts and prayers," Hagerty says in introducing Biden.
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)
Jackie Hagerty, student and survivor of Sandy Hook Elementary shooting
The President
Speaker of the House Rep. Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Richard Blumenthal (CT)
Rep. Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Families impacted by gun violence
Survivors of gun violence
Advocates for gun violence prevention
Members of the community
POTUS has begun his remarks at the vigil.
Biden's remarks ended at 7:26. He highlighted the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, and asks for a moment of silence.
Immediately following the remarks POTUS departed the vigil. Motorcade left for the White House at 7:30.
Motorcade arrived at White House at 7:36.
Additional quote from remarks:
"I've seen you turn pain into purpose," Biden said to the packed church of the families present at the vigil. "Together we've made some important progress. The most significant gun law passed in 30 and still not enough."
"A lot of peoples lives were saved," Biden said recalling legislation passed in the 90's, also under Speaker Nancy Pelosi, on gun regulations. "You know we can do it again."
We have a lid.
 The Sandy Hook shooting survivor who introduced Biden is Jackie Hegarty.