Pool Reports by 
, 
[
]
Good morning!
It's another sunny day in Los Angeles.
Vice President Harris' motorcade rolled into LAX at 8:10 a.m. PT. Harris, wearing a brown jacket, walked directly onto Air Force 2.
AF2 was wheels up at 8:24 a.m. PT, en route to SFO.
Harris is scheduled for an event in San Francisco to discuss climate action with the hosts of podcast A Matter of Degrees, Dr. Leah Stokes and Dr. Katharine Wilkinson.
Motorcade arrived at RON at 9:52 a.m. PT. Pool did not see Harris exit motorcade.
Pool will hold for about three hours before taking off to the climate action discussion event.
Motorcade rolled out of RON at 1:46 p.m. PT, en route to Cowell Theatre. Pool did not see Harris enter the motorcade.
Harris is scheduled for a moderated discussion on climate action with the hosts of podcast A Matter of Degrees, Dr. Leah Stokes and Dr. Katharine Wilkinson. The event will be live streamed: 
The motorcade arrived at Cowell Theater at 1:54 p.m. PT.
Pool did not see Harris exit motorcade; pool went directly into event. Event is anticipated to begin in about an hour.
, Vice President Harris will join the hosts of climate podcast A Matter of Degrees, Dr. Leah Stokes and Dr. Katharine Wilkinson, for a moderated discussion on climate action. The Vice President will demonstrate the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to keeping climate a top priority, as the most climate-focused Administration in history. The discussion will be live-streamed on 
.


Harris, wearing a black pantsuit, walked on stage at 3:14 p.m. PT, joining Dr. Leah Stokes and Dr. Katherine Wilkinson, hosts of climate podcast A Matter of Degrees, for a live recording of the podcast.
The room was packed with about 400 people. Prior to Harris' entrance, environmentalist Leah Thomas opened the event at 2:52 p.m. PT, followed by brief remarks from San Francisco Mayor London Breed, Rep. Jared Huffman and Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis spoke.
Harris began with reflections on her Bay Area upbringing and how it impacted her understanding of the climate crisis.
"The Bay Area really is the home" of the climate movement, Harris said. "I remember being very young during one of the most significant droughts" in the 1970s. The climate crisis "was just very much a part of everything I knew."
Harris said one of pieces of the Inflation Reduction Act she's most excited about is "what we have been doing in terms of electric vehicles. I have a particular fondness for electric school buses."
The climate crisis "rises to being a national security issue if we don't see where this is headed," Harris said.
Harris also touched on reproductive rights and how the issue intersects with the climate crisis.
Find full remarks here: 
Pool did not see the conclusion of the event or see Harris walk off stage; pool exited early to get into press van.
The motorcade rolled out at 4 p.m. PT, en route to a DNC fundraiser in San Francisco.
Motorcade rolled up to the DNC fundraiser at 4:15 p.m. PT, hosted at Gretchen Sisson and Andrew McCollum's residence in Twin Peaks. McCollum is a cofounder of Facebook.
Pool did not see Harris exit motorcade. Sisson began opening remarks and Harris walked into the event at 5:06 p.m. PT.
There were about 100 attendees at the fundraiser, gathered on the residence's lawn under a white canopy and seated on white folding chairs. Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis was present.
Harris began speaking at 5:08 p.m.
She overviewed the Biden-Harris administration's wins, such as the $35 cap on insulin, the nomination of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson and the climate crisis investments in the Inflation Reduction Act.
She then moved to describing "what's at stake now."
"The highest court in our land …just took a constitutional right, that had been recognized, from the people of America, from the women of America," Harris said. "Now we need Congress to act. Because the Court took that right away but Congress can turn that right into law."
President Biden will not allow the filibuster to "get in the way" of signing the Women's Health Protection Act into law. "We need two more Senate seats, and President Biden can sign that bill into law," adding that Biden also seeks to sign the John Lewis Voting Rights Act.
"Momentum is on our side and the stakes are high," she said. "People around the world are watching."
Pool did not hear Harris conclude; pool shuffled into press van before Harris' exit.
Motorcade rolled out of the event at 5:53 p.m., en route to SFO. Harris is scheduled to head back to DC.
AF2 was wheels up 
, heading out of SFO, en route to JBA.
AF2 was wheels down at JBA on Wednesday at 2:17 a.m. ET.
Harris exited AF2 at 2:30 a.m. ET, waved to press and boarded Marine 2 at 2:31 a.m. ET. M2 took off at about 2:35 a.m. ET.
And that's a wrap on this trip! It’s been a pleasure being your pooler.
Have a great week,