Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House. The rain is letting up and the schedule is light.
Your pool has been tested and is preparing for an 11:05 departure for the Department of Interior, where the president is scheduled to give 11:30 remarks at the Tribal Nations Summit. I'll get you there (and back). Remarks live here: 
Following the 2:00pm KJP briefing, we have the annual Christmas tree lighting at 5:30, which is open press.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the beast, due staging.
Pool arrived at Interior about 90 seconds later. Did not spot POTUS.
Also, per WH official
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Secretary Xavier Becerra, U.S Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, U.S Department of Transportation
Secretary Dr. Miguel Cardona, U.S Department of Education
Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Participating in clutches with the President:
Secretary Deb Haaland, U.S. Department of the Interior
Bryan Newland, Assistance Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs
Fawn Sharp, President, National Congress of American Indians
Chairman Ron Corn, Menominee Indian Tribe
Governor Bill Anoatubby, Chickasaw Nation
Chairman Leonard Forsman, Suquamish Tribe
Chairman Tim Nuvangyaoma, Hopi Tribe
President Scott Herman, Rosebud Sioux Tribe
Chairman Keith Anderson, Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux
Chairman Sam Penney, Nez Perce Tribe
President Richard Peterson, Tlingit & Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska
President Whitney Gravelle, Bay Mills Indian Community
Chairman Amber Torres, Walker River Paiute Tribe
Chairwoman Stephanie Bryan, Poarch Creek Indians
Chairwoman Erica Pinto, Jamul Indian Village
Chairwoman Kat Brigham, Umatilla Indian Tribe Reservation
Chairwoman Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, Aquinnah Tribe
Chief Executive Melanie Benjamin, Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the U.S. Department of the Interior:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
PaaWee Rivera, Senior Advisor to the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs & Director of Tribal Affairs
Daron Carreiro, Senior Policy Advisor for Native Affairs
Motorcade moved at 12:17 for the 1:16 second drive— north on 18th, east on E and then into the WH grounds, north west exec. (There's some big party or something on the South Lawn tomorrow.)
Back at the event, there was a least one "four more years" chant, several applause interruptions and some scattered — but enthusiastic — ululating.
[
]
[
]
[
]
Which was called about 60 seconds ago, but I found the link for you to watch live, so forgive me.
We approached by foot from the North and are staged for the arrival of the First and Second Families and the Interior Secretary.
Pool is enjoying the choir, their unique renditions of some classic carols and the soft advertising for the National Park Service. There's a Santa on stage.
Ten knot wind and fading light, hitting the low scattered clouds. French landscape sunset, but am told it will get darker for the tree lighting.
But you can watch that live.
The President and the First Lady will participate in the National Christmas Tree Lighting on the Ellipse.
LL Cool J
Shania Twain performing, "It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas."
LL Cool J
The President and the First Lady
Andy Grammer performing, "Little Drummer Boy"
Yolanda Adams performing, "Silent Night"
A video for the National Parks Foundation
Estefan Family performing, "Thankful"
Joss Stone performs, "What Christmas Means To Me"
Ariana DeBose performing, "What Child Is This"
Estefan Family performing, "Run/Little St. Nick"
Andy Grammer performing, "The Christmas Song"
Shania Twain performing "Christmas, Baby Please Come Home"
Per WH
Secretary Deb Haaland, U.S. Department of the Interior
The President
Vice President Kamala Harris
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff
Secretary Deb Haaland, U.S. Department of the Interior
Secretary Miguel Cardona, U.S. Department of Education
Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Ambassador Katherine Tai, U.S. Trade Representative
Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Director Arati Prabhakar, Office of Science and Technology Policy
We are back on the South driveway, with POTUS looking like he will head out for the evening.
Pool did not see POTUS depart from the Ellipse at the end of the Christmas tree program.
Reception was bad at previous event, so apologies if there were any delays.
President and First Lady Biden are dining with President Macron and his wife, Brigitte at Fiola Mare, on the Georgetown water front —
a not inexpensive Italian seafood restaurant that saw its share of expensed lunches (and drinks) during the pandemic, when the town moved out from its core.
Pool departed WH at 7:42 and arrived at 7:52.
We did not see POTUS enter but will likely see him depart, for anyone wondering about photos.
Yes, Pool will ask what everyone ate and if they ordered on — or off — menu.
First the wives emerged, chatting, patting, holding forth like old friends as they walked out of the restaurant and down the stairs to their cars.
Then came the presidents at about 9:54. Macron placing his left hand on Biden's left shoulder as they ambled down the stairs, then talking animatedly with his hands, making a Gallic point that will be lost to history.
Shouted questions by your pooler — "Did you make up on subsidies? Did you resolve any differences?" went unanswered. Unclear if they were even heard at 30 feet.
Motorcade now knifing through DC. Back at White House at 10:04.
Good night.