Pool Reports by 
, 
I'm your pooler for this unseasonably warm election day.
From the WH press office:
The President taped an interview this morning with the D.L. Hughley Show, which will air in markets across the country during the afternoon. The President discussed what the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered to the Black community in less than two years.
POTUS' schedule is clear except his daily briefing that occurred at 9:30am.
Well, we already have a lid! Have a good Election Day, all.
Lid still in place, sharing this from WH press office:
The President dropped in on a virtual DNC phone bank to thank staff and volunteers.
Still a lid.
From the press office:
This afternoon, the President spoke individually by phone with Democratic Governors Association Chair Roy Cooper, DCCC Chair Sean Patrick Maloney, DSCC Chair Gary Peters, and DNC Senior Advisor Cedric Richmond. He also spoke jointly to DNC Chair Jaime Harrison and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
Still a lid.
From the WH press office:
This evening, the President has made congratulatory calls to Massachusetts Governor-elect Maura Healey, Rhode Island Governor Dan McKee, Senator-elect Peter Welch, Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester, Colorado Governor Jared Polis, Representative Abigail Spanberger, and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer.
Still a lid.
From press office:
The President has completed congratulatory calls to Senator Chris Van Hollen, Senator Michael Bennet, Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker, and Representative Jennifer Wexton.
From the press office:
The President has completed congratulatory calls to Senator Tammy Duckworth, Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Pennsylvania Governor-elect Josh Shapiro.
The President has completed congratulatory calls to Senator Maggie Hassan, Senator Alex Padilla, Representative-elect Seth Magaziner, Maine Governor Janet Mills, and Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser.
The President has completed congratulatory calls to Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz, Maryland Governor-elect Wes Moore, and Representative-elect Emilia Sykes.
From the Press Office:
The President has completed congratulatory calls to California Governor Gavin Newsom, Representative Marcy Kaptur, Representative Mikie Sherrill, Representative Josh Gottheimer, and Representative-elect Greg Landsman.
The President has completed calls for this evening.
From the Press Office:
The President sent a congratulatory text to Pennsylvania Lt. Governor John Fetterman this evening.