Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House, where your pooler has been tested and is enjoying the view a truly 
-level autumn day on the North Lawn.
Here's today's schedule, complete with an updated destination for President Biden's remarks this evening: 
Press briefing with Karine Jean-Pierre.
Event marking the White House's "Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge," during which, per an administration fact sheet, union tradespeople "will demonstrate how they train workers in skills critical to implementing the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law."
 President Biden's remarks at said demonstration.
 President Biden joins a Democratic National Committee event at the Columbus Club, the events space in Union Station.
Talk soon!
The press briefing will now begin at 
Two minutes until the briefing, which can be streamed here:
The briefing began at 1.43 p.m.
Once more, with feeling: 
Due to the late start, the in-town pool has to gather for President Biden's "Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge" event before the end of the briefing.
Karine Jean-Pierre will continue briefing reporters.
President Biden entered the State Dining Room and began speaking at 2.45 p.m.
Viewable here: 
President Biden finished his appearance at 3 p.m.
Some highlights:
President Biden observed a first-year apprentice demonstrate the technique for laying bricks, and expressed interest in how the bricks themselves are cut (answer: either by hammer or trowel).
Biden called union workers the "best-trained" in the world, particularly the apprentice, who he suggested could do some work in Wilmington.
"What are you doing this weekend?"
The president also observed a fourth-year millwright apprentice train with a virtual reality welder.
President Biden said that the apprentice, who is fourth-generation union, was guaranteeing herself "a good job and a middle-class life," and deemed the VR welding tech "pretty cool."
"God love ya-those four generations built this country," Biden said.
Representatives of the IBEW showed off an electric charging station and told President Biden that the price per charge - roughly nine dollars for a standard electric vehicle - is a vast improvement on "five dollars a gallon." President Biden stage-whispered that "I got that down."
Asked from the assembled press about his remarks tonight, President Biden said: "Listen to them man- you'll be impressed.
These 
 be livestreamed in the usual place.
President Biden's remarks in the East Room concluded at 3.22 p.m.
Per the White House, the attendees of the event:
Challenge participants, including employers, training providers and unions, and members of the administration.
Alyssa Cruz, a fourth-year apprentice with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 134, introduced the president.
Courtesy of colleague Marek Wa?kuski with Polish Radio, President Biden was asked as he left the infrastructure reception how long he would continue to keep additional U.S. troops present in Poland and other NATO countries.
He responded: "They'll be there for a long time."
We have a dinner lid until 6 p.m. - learn from my mistakes and get something not from the vending machine!
The pool is gathering for the motorcade to the event at Union Station, which is currently scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. Eastern.
As a heads-up, the president's address will be broadcast, but your pooler will still send along highlights and color following the event's conclusion.
The motorcade started rolling at 6.37 p.m.
The motorcade arrived at Union Station at 6.44 p.m. after an unremarkable (but, for rush-hour Pennsylvania Avenue, almost deliriously speedy) journey.
A small group of protesters chanting "ASHLI BABBITT" held signs in front of Union Station.
President Biden's remarks, expected to be roughly twenty minutes long, are set to begin in two minutes.
The Columbus Club - where couples who really love trains can, for a $6,500 rental fee, accommodate 350 guests for a cocktail wedding reception and 200 for a seated dinner - is filled not quite to capacity, with roughly 130 seated guests, not including press and staff. The audience is primarily younger (college students and some union apprentices, per a White House aide)
The address is viewable here: 
President Biden began speaking at 7.01 p.m.
President Biden concluded his remarks, which emphasized the "damaging, corrosive and destructive" nature of election denialism and political violence, at 7.22 p.m.
In his remarks, the president warned that "MAGA Republicans" have contributed to a climate where some Americans have developed an "appetite for autocracy."
"We don't settle our differences with a riot, or a mob, or a bullet, or a hammer," President Biden said, referring to the attack on Paul Pelosi. "We settle them peacably at the ballot box."
President Biden said that those who are willing to use violence to achieve political ends are a "distinct minority" in America, "but they are loud and they are determined."
Candidates who are poised to refuse to accept the results of next week's election, President Biden said, are choosing "a path to chaos in America."
"It's unprecented, it's unlawful, and it's un-American."
Biden closed with his familiar Jon Meacham-crafted line: "The fate if the soul of america lies where it always does - with the people."
(Please forgive tardiness of these reports - the wireless reception in Union Station is trash garbage.)
The motorcade started its journey back to the White House at 7.25 p.m.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 7.31 p.m., safe and sound.
A lid was called at 7.39 p.m.
Scott