Pool Reports by 
, 
From the White House:
"In memory of Congressman Donald McEachin, the White House will fly flags at half-mast today."
Please note that the president's itinerary now includes a meeting with congressional leaders.
In the morning, the President will convene Congressional Leaders to discuss legislative priorities through the end of 2022.
Pool is now gathering for pool spray ahead of the president's meeting with congressional leaders.
The press pool was ushered into the Roosevelt Room at 10:38 am.
There, the president is meeting with congressional leaders:
Note that the vice president is also attending.
The president made brief remarks but did not take shouted questions from the pool.
"I asked for top leaders in Congress to come in and talk about what we're going to do between now and Christmas," the president said. "There's a lot to do, including resolving the train strike."
He also mentioned funding the federal government, the ongoing coronavirus response and the war in Ukraine.
"And we're going to find other areas of common ground."
According to the White House, the following officials and legislators attended this morning's meeting in the Roosevelt Room:
The Vice President
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-12)
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, U.S. Senate (NY)
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, U.S. Senate (KY)
Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, U.S. House of Representatives (CA-23)
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Grisella Martinez, Director of Legislative Affairs for the Vice President
Leaders of both parties spoke to reporters outside the West Wing following their meeting with President Biden.
First came the Democrats: Sen. Schumer and Speaker Pelosi, at 11;44 am.
"All four of us agreed we've got to resolve this rail shutdown as quickly as possible," Schumer said.
"I don't like going against the ability of the unions to strike," Pelosi said," "but weighing the equities, we must avoid a strike."
Pelosi: "Tomorrow morning in the House, we'll bring up the legislation and send it over to the Senate."
Schumer: "McConnell and I agreed to try to get it done ASAP."
GOP Leader McCarthy spoke to reporters at 11:54 am.
"I can work with anyone who's willing to work to get our spending under control."
"I think they should stop picking on Elon Musk," he said of the administration and any potential reaction to the recent Twitter purchase.
On Nick Fuentes: "His views are nowhere within the Republican Party and within this country itself."
On the North Lawn of the White House, a show of support for men's national team ahead of this afternoon's critical match against Iran. (U.S. needs victory to proceed to the knockout round.)
According to the White House, President Biden's meeting with congressional leaders lasted for exactly an hour, from 10:38 am to 11:38 am.
Those leaders' subsequent remarks were conveyed, in brief, in an earlier pool report.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Pool gathered and was loaded into the press vans for the drive to Joint Base Andrews for the president's trip to Michigan to tour a semiconductor plant and promote his efforts to bring more high-tech manufacturing jobs to the United States.
Biden is driving, rather than flying aboard Marine 1, because the South Lawn is being prepared for Thursday's state dinner with French president Emmanuel Macron.
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to take questions from pool on the flight. The gaggle can he heard via the WH web site: 
Typically, this happens at the very end of the flight, after which we are being hustled onto vans for the drive to the event, so pool is not likely to have time to transcribe much from the gaggle (and your audio via the WH is probably more clear than your pooler's ability to hear above the engine noise anyway).
The president is scheduled to deliver remarks following his factory tour, which can also be followed in real time via the White House web site.
At 1206 the motorcade is rolling toward Joint Base Andrews.
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Lee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Per the WH press office:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Col Matthew Jones, 89th Wing Airlift Commander
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Freeland, Michigan:
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Lee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Air Force set down on the longer of MBS International's two runways, 05-23 (with an approach from the NE), all of 8,002 feet, at 1402 following an 82-minute flight.
In the last half hour of the flight, press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre came to the aft for 22 minutes. She updated on a variety of issues, including new aid to Ukraine to help people restore electricity after Russian missile attacks, for four minutes, and then took questions on the following topics:
Meeting with McCarthy
OPEC cuts gas prices
Rail strike
Siding with management in rail dispute
Paid leave for rail workers
Debt ceiling
China
Tech regs
Ukraine aid in GOP-run House
The president emerged from the forward door at 1411 under cloudy skies. He came down the stairs, chatted with Reps. Slotkin and Kildee for a minute before climbing into the presidential limo, mid-Michigan edition, for the drive to the plant.
At 1414 the motorcade is underway toward Bay City.
The motorcade arrived at the SK Siltron CSS plant at 1428 following a 14-minute drive from the airport in Freeland.
The plant is a large, white two-story building adjacent to the highway.
Pool has been positioned in a spot on the factory floor where the president will pass on his tour. This particular room is currently a warehouse but with the plant expansion will be used for manufacturing in the future.
The drive from the airport passed small homes, barns, empty fields, with occasional clumps of residents who waved, before we got on the limited access US highway (75 mph limit).
In town, there were again groups of onlookers waving.
The president walked into the room at 1436, accompanied by Gov. Whitmer, and introduced himself to plant workers.
Speaking with a SK employee who was explaining about semiconductor manufacturing, Biden said:
"As might remember we got involved in something called the CHIPS Act."
Now at a small table with three wafers on display.
In report 7, pool identified the person Biden was speaking with as a tour "employee."
He is, in fact, the CEO of SK Siltron CSS, Jianwei Dong.
Biden: "This is a big deal. Thank you all."
Pool was escorted out of that room into an adjacent one, where we are now holding for Biden's remarks.
There is a stage with a lectern facing a couple of hundred chairs filled with SK employees and local officials, arranged in a semi-circle. A stairway leading to a second level is filled with people as well, as is the railing above it.
Signs proclaiming " BUILDING A BETTER AMERICA" are hung in several places.
Per the WH press office:
The President toured the SK Siltron CSS facility.
Attendees
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)
Representative Dan Kildee (MI-08)
Tour Leaders
Steve Claywell, President of Michigan Building Trades
Jianwei Dong, CEO of SK Siltron CSS
Participating in a photoline with the President:
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Brenda Moore, Mayor of Saginaw, Michigan
Maureen Donker, Mayor of Midland, Michigan
James Barcia, County Executive of Bay County, Michigan
The President will discuss how his economic plan is leading to a manufacturing boom, growing the economy, and creating good-paying jobs in Michigan and across the country.
Attendees
Local elected officials, labor leaders, union members, and employees from SK Siltron CSS.
Pre-Program
Jae-won Chey, Executive Vice Chairman of SK Group
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Speaking Program
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (MI)
Jeffery Dukes, Apprentice, UA Local 85
The President
The president took at the stage at 1518.
There appears to be a single teleprompter screen, mounted directly ahead of him.
His remarks can be watched through the WH web site: 
The president finished his speech at 1544.
Biden congratulated Gov. Whitmer on her comfortable re-election, thanked local officials and members of Congress, before turning to the central theme of his remarks, the legislation he successfully pushed so far, including the "CHIPS" act to encourage investment in semiconductor manufacturing in the United States as well as the infrastructure legislation.
"Governor? We fixed your damned roads," he said, alluding to a slogan Whitmer used in her run for her first term.
He spoke about the importance of bringing computer chip manufacture back to the country.
"It's a game changer."
"We invented the chip in America. And we got lazy."
"Companies began moving jobs overseas rather than moving product overseas."
"We're not going to be held hostage anymore."
"I've never been as optimistic about America as I have been these last several years."
He emphasized that 80 percent of the new jobs do not require a college degree.
"We have world class, high-skilled, highly committed workers."
Biden spoke to Americans who felt "left behind" by the loss of manufacturing jobs in the Midwest and other areas.
"We're going to leave nobody behind this time."
He said inflation is starting to slow while unemployment remains low.
He said Michigan families are paying $170 a month less than what they were paying this summer, and attributed this to his actions, including his decision to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
"We're laser focused on this, I promise you."
He spoke about the switch to electric vehicles and lauded GM CEO Mary Barra for dropping her lawsuit against California for imposing stricter emission standards.
He spoke about paying for upgrading other infrastructure, including eliminating lead pipes for drinking water.
"No more Flints ever again."
The president jumped back on stage at 1604 with an announcement:
"The US one, Iran zero! The game's over!"
He had meeting with those in the audience for the previous 20 minutes following his speech.
More Biden:
"USA! USA! That's a big game, man. When I spoke to the coach and the players, I said, 'You can do this.' They went 'eh.' They did it, God love 'em. Anyway, just thought you might want to hear."
The pool was led back to the vans at 1622.
The president spent a half hour after his remarks greeting people in his audience, shaking hands, taking photos with them, at the end posing for a group photo with a large number of what appeared to be union employees. The sound system, in the meantime, had Sousa's "Stars and Stripes Forever," the president's walk-off music, on repeat.
No news other than his commentary about the soccer match detailed in reports 11 and 11a.
At 1647 the motorcade is underway back toward the airport.
The president's motorcade came to a stop with his limousine in front of the staircase at Air Force 1 at 1704.
President Biden climbed aboard two minutes later.
There were fewer people along the motorcade route, and one group of Trump supporters, one carrying a "Fuck Biden" flag. Nearby was a man holding a hand lettered sign: "Trump lost."
We should be in the air soon, en route JBA.
Air Force 1 was back on the ground at 1827 following a 68-minute, only-slightly-bumpy-flight-at-the-start flight following an exciting short-field takeoff.
The president came down the staircase 10 minutes later and climbed into his waiting limousine.
At 1839 the cars and vans are on the move, back toward the White House.
Per the WH press office:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Col Matthew Jones, 89th Wing Airlift Commander
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Lee Slater, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
The president's motorcade returned to the WH at 1904.
Your travel pooler is handing back to your in-town pooler for the rest of the evening.
Bonne soirée.
At 1914, per the WH press office.