Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from JBA on a blue sky afternoon.
VP arrived via motorcade at 3:02 and immediately boarded AF2, did not take questions from pool.
VP did come back briefly for off the record w/ pool before departure.
Wheels up for NYC at 3:16.
A reminder of today's schedule, via the VP's office:
At 
, the Vice President will depart Washington, D.C. en route to New York, New York. This departure from Joint Base Andrews and arrival at LaGuardia Airport will be pooled press.
At 
, the Vice President will deliver remarks at a GOTV event with Governor Kathy Hochul (D-NY). This event at Barnard College will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
At 
, the Vice President will depart New York, New York en route to Washington, D.C. This departure from LaGuardia Airport and arrival at Joint Base Andrews will be pooled press.
AF2 touched down at LaGuardia Airport in NYC at 4:04.
VP deplaned at 4:15, and was greeted on the tarmac by Reps. Jamaal Bowman (D, NY-16) and Carolyn Maloney (D, NY-12).
VP did not come over to talk to pool. Motorcade rolling at 4:18.
At approx 4:30, after an uneventful motorcade ride, VP made an unannounced visit to Abyssinian Baptist in NYC to pay respects to the late Rev. Calvin Butts. Was inside for roughly 10 mins.
Some onlookers waved at the motorcade while en route to the church. A few onlookers cheered or stopped to take photos as she exited the church.
Passing along from a White House official on background:
The Vice President is attending the viewing of Rev. Calvin Butts, Pastor of Abyssinian Baptist Church of Harlem and a local civil rights hero.
VP arrived at Barnard College around 5, where the Dem get out the vote event was already underway. Room full with a few hundred supporters and students. Back of stage was checkered with Hochul and "New York Women Vote" signs.
VP finished out the program, coming after Hillary Clinton and NY Gov Kathy Hochul.
VP took the stage at 6:16 and spoke for 22 mins. She was welcomed with a large cheer. Unlike the speakers before her, she took the stick mic and walked around the stage (like POTUS at recent events).
She likened voting to "putting in an order," saying that because people did so in 2020, the Biden admin was able to do gun reforms, climate investments, get Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson on the bench, cancel student loan debt, etc.
In particular, she touched on abortion rights, encouraging people to vote for Hochul: "We're going to need people in the state house and at a local level who have the courage to stand up and push back against what is happening …. Who is your governor matters."
More on abortion: "The idea that anyone who proposes or professes to be a leader would suggest that there would be no exception after an individual has endured and survived an act of violence and violation, and then suggest to them they will not have the autonomy after the violation of their body to make a decision about what next happens to their body is immoral."
At one point, VP noted she has spoken with many foreign leaders. A person in the crowded shouted "slay," to a round of laughter.
At the end of the remarks, VP worked the rope line for a few mins.
Motorcade Barnard at 6:48 en route to LaGuardia.
Notable quotables from other speakers (all Dems):
Gov. Kathy Hochul:
Hilary Clinton:

NY AG Letitia James:

Full rundown of speakers, courtesy of VP's team:

- Hannah Bloomquist, Student
- Catherine Sawoski, Student
- Congresswoman Nydia Velasquez (D-NY-07)
- Andrea Stewart-Cousins (D-NY-35), New York Senate Majority Leader
- Councilwoman Adrienne Adams (D-NY-28), Speaker, New York City Council
- Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Senate Majority Leader
- Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY)
- Attorney General Letitia James (D-NY)
- Hillary Clinton, Former Secretary of State
- Governor Kathy Hochul (D-NY)
- Vice President Kamala Harris
After an uneventful motorcade ride to LaGuardia, VP exited vehicle at 7:10, promptly boarding AF2. Wheels were up for JBA at 7:27.
Wheels down at JBA at 8:12. VP deplaned at 8:24 and promptly boarded Marine 2. It was airborne at 8:30.
That's a wrap for me - good night!
(Also: apologies you never received a pool report explicitly about takeoff from NYC … seems the email got stuck in my outbox as we hit the runway.)