 Mr. President, do you think that your conversations with the Chinese President will be productive?
 I always think my conversations are productive.
Anyway——
Are you hopeful that the conflict will be resolved with Russia and Ukraine, sir?
 Look, I don't think the conflict will be resolved with Russia and Ukraine until Ukraine gets out of—until Putin gets out of Ukraine.
Anyway, you guys, I'm heading down to—first of all, going to Cairo for the environmental effort, then heading over to Colombia and then—I mean, Cambodia. I was thinking—I'm thinking the Western Hemisphere. And then off to Indonesia. So there will be a lot to talk about.
Kevin McCarthy says you congratulated him, when you spoke with him, on winning the majority. Is that true?
 No, I congratulated him—I said: "And if you win the majority, congratulations. But congratulations so far; you've made some gains."
And, sir, do you plan to go and campaign in Georgia for the runoff election?
 I plan on doing whatever the—he wants me to do for him.
Can you keep the House, Mr. President?
 Well, you know, it's still alive. It's still alive. [
]—it's like drawing an inside straight. But it's still alive.
 When are you——
Mr. President, when are you meeting the new Brazilian President, the next President—Lula? When that's happening?
 I—we don't have a date yet.
Thank you.
 Did Herschel Walker——
 Mr. President—[
].
You said yesterday that the Constitution—[
]—is involved with whether former President Trump could run. Did you mean that he might not be able to run because of the 14th Amendment?
 No, no, I said respecting the institutions matter. And one of the things I know you all kind of dismissed in my talking about whether or not we had, in America, a land that was consistent with our institutions, and I talked about whether or not there was going to be any shenanigans in the way in which we did our elections. And I notice all you are talking about it now. Welcome aboard.
 Thoughts on Brittney Griner, Mr. President?