Pool Reports by 
, 
We are rolling to Joint Base Andrews. 11:18am
POTUS entered the motorcade wearing his shades. 11:17 am
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
WH Press office flags the following:
President Biden spoke to nationally-syndicated radio host, Rickey Smiley, during a pre-taped interview which aired this morning at 8:20AM ET. Topics included the Biden-Harris Administration's ongoing efforts to advance equity and opportunity for Black Americans across the country and the importance of voting. Audio of the interview posted online here: 
POTUS is wheels down at White House 11:57pm.
He entered the residence 12:00. No remarks.
Good night!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. POTUS is traveling to Florida. We're a week out from Election Day.
POTUS emerged from the Beast at 11:42 pm ET and promptly boarded Air Force One, holding John Meacham's book on Lincoln.
White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard on our way down, around 1:00 pm ET. You can listen in here: 
We're lifting off shortly for Fort Lauderdale International Airport.
Air Force One touched down in Fort Lauderdale at 1:45 pm ET. Jean-Pierre gaggled for 18 minutes toward the end of the flight.
Our first stop is OB Johnson Park/Community Center at Hallandale Beach, where the president will give remarks on the stakes for Medicare and social security in next week's midterm elections.
POTUS deplaned AF1 at 1:56 pm ET. Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz and Dean Trantalis, mayor of Fort Lauderdale, greeted the president upon arrival. He entered the Beast without taking questions.
Two corrections from Report #1: Jon Meacham's name is spelled without an "h" in Jon, and POTUS boarded AF1 in the am, not pm.
Motorcade pulled in to the speech venue location at 2:13 pm ET. Your pool is in the community center and holding.
Passing along from the White House:
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)
Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
Gary Farmer, Florida State Senator
Marie Woodson, Florida State Representative
Robin Bartleman, Florida State Representative
Melanie Reneau, Parks & Recreation Superintendent, City of Hallandale Beach
Cora Daise, Human Services Director, City of Hallandale Beach
Chanel Jackson, Human Services Department Assistant Director, City of Hallandale Beach
POTUS came on stage and began speaking at 2:54 pm ET. You can follow live at 
POTUS wrapped up at 3:27 pm ET, and shook some hands before departing.
Your pool boarded the motorcade at 3:37 pm ET. We're moving. The next event is a reception for Charlie Crist in Golden Beach.
The White House sends along a correction to their photoline list: Rep. Frederica Wilson was not in attendance.
Motorcade pulled up to the house at 4:04 pm ET.
One cop driving a motorcycle in the motorcade wiped out en route to the venue. The motorcade continued on. Your pooler is checking on his condition.
Pool is entering the venue.
The hosts of this reception are Scott and Annie Schlesinger.
After initially mingling inside, the audience of roughly 70 guests came out to the patio and lawn area, where a blue-tiled pool sits between the house and the Atlantic. Audience members have refreshments in hand, and canapés are being served by the poolside bar.
Scott Schlesinger spoke first, acknowledging the race is an uphill climb for Democrats, followed by Crist, who offered very brief remarks.
"Florida deserves so much better, and I know that in my heart, Floridians know that too," Crist said.
POTUS followed, speaking on the patio alongside Crist and Schlesinger, facing the ocean, behind a red velvet rope barrier.
He called the Florida governor's race "one of the most important races in the country."
POTUS recalled the effects of the Charlottesville Nazi rally and said he ran for president to restore "the soul of America," bipartisanship and a sense of unity throughout the country.
"Charlie is running against Donald Trump incarnate. This guy doesn't fit any of the categories I talked about. The way he deals, the way he denies," POTUS said.
"I always say democracy is on the ballot. I really mean it," he added.
POTUS said there hasn't been such widespread rejection of democracy in America since the Civil War.
He pointed to the GOP response to the attack on Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband as an example of how broken the Republican Party has become.
"Look at the response of Republicans, making jokes about it," he said.
"The guy purchases a hammer to knee cap" the No. 2 in the line of succession, and yet no one in Republican Party leadership condemned it, he said.
"These guys are extremely extreme," he said.
He recalled sitting down between France's Emmanuel Macron and the UK's Boris Johnson and saying "America is back," and them responding by asking, "how long?"
"The rest of the world is looking at us, Charlie. They're looking at us," POTUS said.
"It is really important that a state the size of Florida… comes down on the right side of history," he said.
POTUS also said that reproductive rights are on the ballot.
No one knows precisely when begins, he said. "And yet you have there candidates out there saying a decision should be made between a woman, her doctor, and their local elected official," he said.
"You're a powerful state," he said of Florida. "You matter."
POTUS wrapped after speaking for roughly 24 minutes.
"Lots on the ballot. This is a genuine inflection point in our country," he said.
As always, please check quotes against the transcript.
Motorcade departed the residence at 5:19 pm ET and arrived at the Gulfstream Park Landing Zone at 5:25 epm ET. We're taking Ospreys down the coast to Miami.
Ospreys landed in Miami-Opa Locka Executive Airport at 5:38 pm ET. POTUS exited Marine One at 5:48 pm ET with Crist and Wasserman Schultz. They boarded the motorcade without addressing the press.
We're heading to POTUS' final event of the day, a rally of Florida Democrats for Charlie Crist and Val Demings, at Florida Memorial University.
Per White House, greeting the president are:
Commander Michael Gillham, Acting Commanding Officer, Air Station Miami
Master Chief Petty Officer Bryan Slazar, Command Master Chief, Air Station Miami
Senior Chief Maricruz Duranrodgriguez, Health Services Administrator, Air Station Miami
Motorcade is rolling as of 5:52 pm ET.
Motorcade arrived at FMU at 6:02 pm ET.
You can follow the event live on C-SPAN:
POTUS took the stage and started speaking at 8:09 pm ET.
Once again, you can follow the event live on C-SPAN:
Per White House:
Rep. Val Demings (FL-10), Candidate for U.S. Senate
Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)
Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24)
Rep. Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick (FL-20)
Charlie Crist, Former Florida Governor & Candidate for Governor of Florida
Joe Geller, Florida State Representative
Christopher Benjamin, Florida State Representative
Joshua Simmons, Vice Mayor of Coral Springs, Florida
Nikki Fried, Florida Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services
POTUS finished speaking at 8:44 pm ET, with Crist and Demings joining him on stage.
Motorcade is rolling as of 8:51 pm ET back to the Miami airport. We're flying back to Fort Lauderdale.
Motorcade arrived at the airport at 9:01 pm ET. We're boarding Ospreys back to Fort Lauderdale, where we'll board AF1 for POTUS' return to Washington.
Ospreys landed at 9:21 pm. POTUS deplaned M1 at 9:26 pm ET, and promptly boarded AF1 waving to the press, but without taking questions.
We're headed back to Washington.
Air Force One touched down at 11:29 pm ET after an uneventful flight, with the exception for some of the Phillies game on the cabin televisions. POTUS emerged at 11:38 pm ET and entered M1 bound for the White House without taking questions.
Marine One is taking off. Handing it over to the in-town pool. Good night.