Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House! I'll be your print pooler today as midterm results continue to trickle in.
The president does not have any public appearances on his schedule as of this moment, but pool is standing by for possible updates to that. The press secretary has previously said she expects the president to address the election results in some fashion today.
Feel free to reach out with any questions.
We have a lunch lid until 3 p.m. President Biden will deliver remarks and take questions at 4 p.m., per updated guidance below:
In the afternoon, the President will deliver remarks and take questions. This event in the State Dining Room will be open press and pre-credentialed for TV. [All outlets must RSVP here by 1:00 PM]
 [All outlets must RSVP here by 1:00 PM]
From the White House:
The President has completed congratulatory calls to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Representative Matt Cartwright, Representative Teresa Leger Fernandez, Kansas Governor Laura Kelly, Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers, Ohio Governor Mike DeWine, and Representative-elect Robert Garcia.
The President also spoke with Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, Representative Val Demings, Senator Mark Kelly, and Senator Raphael Warnock.
Pool and other credentialed media are now gathering for President Biden's scheduled remarks and Q&A with reporters. The event will be live-streamed on the White House website and here, for those who want to follow along: 
We have a two minute warning to President Biden's remarks. Event is being live-streamed on the White House website, C-SPAN and elsewhere, so I won't send quotes but will pass along any notable color.
Reporters were directed to assigned seats in the State Dining Room. There are roughly 10 rows of six chairs each on either side of the podium, with a Teleprompter in the aisle in the middle of the room. The room is quite full with reporters, photographers, videographers and staff.
In front of the podium is a bank of flowers, which Fox Business' Ed Lawrence helpfully identified as peace lilies.
First lady Jill Biden entered the room at 4:15 p.m. and took a seat in the front row. President Biden entered the room a moment later and began his prepared remarks, calling Tuesday a "good day for democracy."
You can watch live here: 
President Biden left the room at 5:09 p.m. after taking questions for roughly 45 minutes.
After his opening remarks, Biden told the room he was going to take questions from a list of 10 reporters. He ultimately called on eight outlets, with each reporter asking multiple questions: The Associated Press, CBS, CNN, ABC, The Grio, Bloomberg, NBC News and The New York Times. Questions covered the midterm results, his 2024 plans, the economy, Ukraine, a potential meeting with Xi Jinping and more.
After his opening remarks and after taking questions from two reporters, Biden took out a handheld microphone, which he used as he moved around the stage and periodically leaned against the podium.
A fellow reporter helpfully pointed out that President Biden also called on Reuters. So, nine outlets in all. Your pooler apologizes for the oversight of the great Steve Holland.
The White House called a lid at 6 p.m. Have a great evening, everyone.
From the White House:
The President spoke by phone this evening with House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy.