Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House, two days before the Thanksgiving holiday. It is 47 degrees, clear and sunny with blue skies above the White House grounds today.
The White House press briefing is scheduled for 11:30 AM. There will be some guests in the briefing today. Here are the details from the White House: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, COVID-19 Response Coordinator Dr. Ashish Jha, and Chief Medical Advisor Dr. Anthony Fauci
President Biden is scheduled to depart from the North Lawn at 5:50 pm for his trip to Nantucket. The departure is slated to be covered by the out-of-town pool.
The White House called a lunch lid at 1:56 pm.
There are no remaining public activities on Biden's schedule. He is slated to depart the White House from the North Lawn at 5:50 pm for Nantucket. That departure is scheduled to be covered by the Out of Town Pool.
On the TV monitors in the White House press room, your pooler watched the POTUS motorcade on the North Lawn load up and roll away at 6:28 pm. Handing off to the out of town pooler.
Thanks all.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello on this chilly Tuesday evening! Zolan here reporting for pool duty.
The press was loaded into vans just outside the White House shortly after 5:30 PM. The president's motorcade departed the north grounds of the White House at 6:26 PM. Your pooler could not see him enter.
We're on our way to JBA.
After an uneventful ride, the motorcade came to a halt at Joint Base Andrews at 6:50 PM. The president exited the Beast wearing a brown leather jacket and greeted the military official on scene with First Lady Jill Biden. The two boarded AF1 at 6:52 PM.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady at Joint Base Andrews:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Mrs. Christie Jones, Col. Jones' Spouse
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Air Force One to Nantucket, Massachusetts:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic Response
Air Force 1 landed at the ACK at 8:05 PM after an uneventful hour-long flight. While in the air your pooler spotted the president's son, Hunter Biden, on the plane.
The president exited AF1 at 8:14 PM and immediately entered the Beast without stopping for questions. We're rolling at 8:18 PM
POTUS dropped out of the motorcade at roughly 8:30 PM. We have a LID at 8:32 PM.
Thanks all.