Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello from Nantucket, I'll be your pooler today.
The pool has been swept and is now holding in a bus near the residence where the president is staying.
POTUS and FLOTUS are returning to the White House this afternoon, please see the daily guidance below.
Feel free to reach out if needed.
 
The pool joined the president's motorcade at 2:15 pm and we are now rolling.
The motorcade reached Nantucket's airport at 2:22 pm after an uneventful drive.
Small groups of people were waving and taking pictures as we drove by.
The president boarded at 2:24 pm shortly after the First Lady.
He waved and saluted at the top of the stairs.
He did not stop to take questions.
We will be wheels up shortly
Also sharing this from the WH
Traveling with the President and the First Lady to Nantucket Memorial Airport via Motorcade:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic Response
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Air Force One was wheels up at 2:35 pm and landed at JBA at 3:46 pm.
A quick note about departure: your pooler saw baby Beau boarding the plane in his father's arms, and copooler Emily Goodin also spotted Ashley Biden.
The WH also shares this:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady on Air Force One to Washington, DC:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Andrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Communications Advisor for Strategic Response
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
The president and the First Lady exited the plane at 3:55 pm.
They chatted briefly with their greeters (names below).
Ashley Biden, Hunter Biden and his wife Melissa Cohen, together with baby Beau, also got out of the plane.
The president and the First Lady hugged Ashley, and POTUS hugged Hunter before entering the Beast at approx 3:58 pm.
The motorcade started rolling shortly after, we are now enroute to the White House.
Sharing this from the WH: 
Greeting the President and the First Lady at Joint Base Andrews:
Col. Matthew E. Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
SrA Arianna Pezzato, Flight Line Protocol Technician
The motorcade reached the White House at 4:23 pm and came to a halt on the South Lawn at 4:24 pm.
Your pooler saw the president and the First Lady enter the White House from a distance. Hunter Biden, Beau Biden and Melissa Cohen also went in at 4:26 pm.
While leaving, we could see some of the holiday decorations, and caught a glimpse of the tree in the Oval Office.
The WH has now called a lid, enjoy the rest of your day.