Pool Reports by 
, 
The pool has gathered along with a large contingent of other media on the South Lawn ahead of the turkey pardoning, which is scheduled for 11:15 am.
This is open press.
A version of Freebird was playing ahead of the ceremony.
From the White House:
The President is delivering remarks and will pardon the National Thanksgiving Turkeys, named Chocolate and Chip.
Participants
Ronald Parker, Chairman of the National Turkey Federation
Alexa Starnes, Daughter of the Owner of Circle S Ranch
Attendees
Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina
Kristin Cooper, First Lady of North Carolina
Representative Dan Bishop (NC-09)
Brookland Middle School students, members of the National Turkey Federation, and agricultural stakeholders
Two minute warning issued as of 11:23 am.
"Nobody likes it when their turkey gets cold," POTUS said starting his remarks around 11:27 am.
Biden acknowledged guests, including Gov. Cooper and the students in attendance.
The president also turned and pointed out the presence of his dog Commander on the balcony.
POTUS several jokes, which also included a reference to "fowl play" and saying that the only "red wave" at Thanksgiving would be if Commander knocks over the cranberry sauce.
The "pardons" of Chocolate and Chip we're issued at 11:31 am.
POTUS then spoke about the Thanksgiving season before concluding his remarks at 11:35 am.
He then worked the crowd, and at one point passing the media area he was asked a shouted question about the appointment of the special counsel to investigate matters related to former President Trump
"I learned about when you did," POTUS said.
Lunch lid has been called until 3:30 pm.
From the White House:
At approximately 2:11pm ET, the President spoke by phone to NY Governor Kathy Hochul following the impact of the winter storm in New York.
At approximately 2:22pm ET, the President spoke by phone to CO Governor Jared Polis about the tragic shooting that took place in Colorado Springs over the weekend.
Pool has gathered on the South Lawn for the Marine One departure.
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged at 4:09 pm and walked to Marine One without stopping for questions.
Wheels up at 4:14 pm.
The gaggle on Air Force One is expected at approximately 4:55 pm, per the White House.
The White House says that we should expect POTUS and FLOTUS back earlier than scheduled. After tracking down ingredients for cornbread stuffing and pecan pie, your pooler is back at the White House
From the White House:
UPDATED CALL TIME: 9:10 PM - Gather at the Palm Room Doors
Marine One was wheels down on the South Lawn at 9:21 pm.
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged from the helicopter at 9:23 pm and walked directly into the White House, without stopping for questions.
They were back inside the White House about a minute later.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Lid called at 9:32 pm.
That's all from here. Have a good night.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello from JBA. I'll be your print pooler for the president and first lady's trip to North Carolina for a Friendsgiving event with service members and military families.
Marine One landed here at 4:23 p.m., and the president and first lady stepped off a few moments later. They went to board Air Force One without stopping to talk with reporters. FLOTUS waved as she boarded, and POTUS turned and waved at the top step.
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is scheduled to gaggle during the flight, which should take about an hour.
We are rolling for takeoff at 4:30 p.m.
Greeting the President and the First Lady on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89thAirlift Wing
From the White House on today's trip:
Today, the President and the First Lady will visit Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point to meet with servicemembers and their families and attend a Friendsgiving meal hosted by the Robert Irvine Foundation. This visit is part of Joining Forces, the First Lady's initiative to support military families, including families of service members and veterans, caregivers and survivors.
While on the base, they will meet with servicemembers and families from MCAS Cherry Point, Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune, and Marine Corps Air Station New River.
Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point is home to nearly 9,500 active duty, reserve, and guard personnel, and just over 8,000 military family members. MCAS Cherry Point plays a critical role in the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Force, and is home to the 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing and to the Marine Corps' Fleet Readiness Center East, which performs work on aircraft and aircraft components used by the Marine Corps, Navy and other services.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry Point, North Carolina:
Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina
Kristin Cooper, First Lady of North Carolina
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
General Garrett Hoffman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of White House Military Office
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Rory Brosius, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director of Joining Forces
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Jimmy Anderson, Director of Veterans Engagement
Air Force One was wheels up from JBA at 4:36 p.m. and wheels down in North Carolina at 5:27 p.m.
Karine Jean-Pierre came back and spoke to reporters/took questions for about 16 minutes during the flight. It was streamed on the White House website.
As an FYI, at least part of the Friendsgiving event tonight will also be streamed on the White House website.
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 5:37 p.m. and shook hands and mingled for a few minutes with military personnel waiting on the tarmac. Info on greeters below.
The president and First Lady then made their way on foot a short distance into the hangar where the event is taking place. Pool walked to a different entrance, and we are now holding inside.
There are dozens of round tables set up with eight chairs placed around each table. Many attendees are dressed in military fatigues. There are buffet stations set up on either side of the hangar. On one side of the hangar are military vehicles, and on the other is a sign that says "Happy Thanksgiving"
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady on arrival at Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry Point, North Carolina:
Lieutenant General David Ottignon, U.S. Marine Corps (USMC), Commanding General, II Marine Expeditionary Force
Mrs. Diana Ottignon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David Ottignon
Sergeant Major Lonnie Travis, USMC, Sergeant Major, II Marine Expeditionary Force
Major General Scott Benedict, USMC, Commanding General, 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing
Mrs. Kelley Benedict, Spouse of Major General Scott Benedict
Sergeant Major Joy Kitashima, USMC, Sergeant Major, 2nd Marine Aircraft Wing
Master Gunnery Sergeant Mark Kitashima, USMC (Retired), Spouse of Sergeant Major Joy Kitashima
The speaking program started here at 6:10 p.m. Remarks are being live streamed so I'll send color, but won't send full remarks.
As we waited for POTUS and FLOTUS to take the stage, one speaker promised this would be the best meal that service members ate during their time in the Marine Corps. Several attendees here came up to take photos with press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, too.
Here's the speaking lineup, and a reminder that you can watch live here: 
The President and the First Lady will deliver brief comments at a Friendsgiving dinner at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, North Carolina.
The First Lady
Jennifer Gonzalez
The President
Commander Wesley Myhand, Chaplain of the Marine Air Corps Station, Cherry Point, North Carolina
President Biden gave brief remarks, walking among the tables with a handheld mic as he spoke.
"The reason we came is the chef's not bad," he joked.
He praised the sacrifice of those serving in the military, calling them the "greatest fighting force in the history of the world." He also thanked their spouses, saying they put up with "an awful lot." He also thanked Gov. Roy Cooper, who is in attendance.
The president said he'll be serving mashed potatoes in the buffet line. Pool is holding toward the back of the room as the president and First Lady assist with one of the buffet lines on the other side of the room. The smell of turkey and other thanksgiving fare is filling the air of this enclosed space as guests are dismissed by table to get food.
From the White House:
The President and the First Lady participate in a Friendsgiving dinner with service members and military families from Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, Camp Lejeune, and Marine Corps Air Station, New River in North Carolina as part of the First Lady's Joining Forces Initiative.
Roy Cooper, Governor of North Carolina
Kristin Cooper, The First Lady of North Carolina
Elected officials, single service members and family members of deployed soldiers
After about 40 minutes at a serving station, the Bidens began going table to table to meet and greet the service members and military families in attendance. Pool remained in our holding area throughout that time (photographers were allowed to follow the president). The First Lady came to a table right near the pool for a few minutes at one point, though the conversation was inaudible as there was music playing in the background.
The president mingled at tables a bit further away from the pool as the two took a divide and conquer approach to cover the whole room.
Also, for those wondering, Robert Irvine is the chef who hosted tonight's meal.
From the White House
The President and the First Lady greet military Friendsgiving attendees.
Escorts:
Lieutenant General David Ottignon
Mrs. Diana Ottignon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David Ottignon
Passing along the menu from tonight's Friendsgiving, per the White House:
The President and the First Lady served service members and military families a Friendsgiving dinner hosted by Chef Robert Irvine.
Salad of Autumn Greens
Slow Roasted Bourbon Brined Turkey
Maple Mustard Glazed Spiral Cut Smoked Ham
Mashed Potatoes
Brioche-Cornbread Stuffing
Sweet Potato Casserole
Roasted Brussel Sprouts and Butternut Squash
Holiday Pies
Warm Apple Crisp
Double Chocolate Pot's De Crème
POTUS and FLOTUS worked the room for about a half hour before making their way to the front for some final photos. Pool was pulled out of the hangar at 7:45 p.m. and assembled near Air Force One.
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the hangar at 7:49 p.m. and boarded the plane a few minutes later without stopping to talk to the pool.
We will be wheels up shortly for the return trip to JBA, about an hour long flight.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady prior to departure from Marine Corps Air Station, Cherry Point, North Carolina:
Colonel Brendan Burks, USMC, Commanding Officer, Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
Mrs. Holly Burks, Spouse of Colonel Brendan Burks
Master Gunnery Sergeant Nester Antoine, USMC Acting Sergeant Major, Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point
Also from the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
General Garrett Hoffman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of White House Military Office
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Rory Brosius, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director of Joining Forces
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Jimmy Anderson, Director of Veterans Engagement
Air Force One touched down at JBA at 8:54 p.m. after an uneventful flight with no visitors to the press cabin. CNN played on the TVs with coverage of the Colorado shooting and new special counsel handling Trump investigations.
POTUS and FLOTUS deplaned at 9:03 p.m. and made their way over to Marine One, which lifted at 9:10.
Handing off to the in-town pool.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89thAirlift Wing
 