Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy Thanksgiving from Nantucket.
Pool is standing by on this sunny and not too chilly morning.
The president's public schedule is as follows:
While holding, pool listened to Biden's call in to the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. He said he was going to stop at a fire department today to spend time with first responders.
"I want to say thanks to the firefighters and police officers, first responders. They never take a break," he said.
"And by the way, we're going to be talking to some of our troops later in the day, both here and abroad. We remember them every single day. God bless our troops."
The FLOTUS said they will probably take a walk on the beach after their family dinner.
POTUS said coming to Nantucket for Thanksgiving has been a family tradition since they got married.
Motorcade is moving at 9:54 am.
Pool arrived at a firehouse at 9:58 am
Few onlookers on the route. (We were not close to the harbor where the annual turkey plunge was happening.)
About 10 firefighters were lined up outside to greet the president. POTUS & FLOTUS - holding the hand of the youngest grandchild, Beau - arrived with pumpkin pies.
"How are you guys?" Biden said.
Pool was too far away to hear more of the conversation.
POTUS & FLOTUS posed for photos.
Beau was given a miniature fire hat. Firefighters took photos of Beau with FLOTUS, who was wearing a brown suede jacket, dark pants and black suede boots.
He briefly answered some questions.
On latest shooting, he said the idea that we're not enforcing red flags law is ridiculous. The idea we still allow semiautomatic weapons is just sick.
On banning assault weapons, he said:
" I'm going to try."
On Ukraine, he thinks there's still sufficient congressional support.
No time to walk away from Ukraine.
On rail strike, he said he can't talk about details but has not directly engaged though his team has been in touch with the parties.
Asked when he's getting his physical, he said: "Do you think I need it?"
He said he's had part of it done & will get the rest later this year.
Pool left at about 10:15.
Will send fuller quotes soon.
POTUS returned to residence at about 10:26 am.
Pool is heading back to hotel.
We have a lid at 10:37 a.m.
I will still send out full quotes and any call readouts.
As always, please check against transcript.
"The idea that we're not enforcing red flag laws…is ridiculous."
"The idea we still allow semi- automatic weapons to be purchased is sick. Just sick. It has no, no social redeeming value. Zero. None. Not a single solitary rationale for it except profit for the gun manufacturers."
Q. Can you do anything about gun laws during the lame duck?
"I'm going to try?"
Q. What will you try and do?
"I'm going to try to get rid of assault weapons. "
Q. During the lame duck?
"I'm going to do it whenever - I've got to make that assessment as I get in and start counting votes."
"This is no time to walk away from Ukraine, not at all. Now, we had a lot of talk in this last election about whether the other team is going to continue to support Ukraine. I still believe there's enough support there."
Q. Can you talk about what the holdup is?
"I can't because it's the middle of the negotiations."
Q. Are you involved?
"My team has been in touch with all the parties…I have not directly engaged yet because they're still talking."
Q. When will you get your annual physical?
"Do you think I need it?"
"Part of my physical is already done and I'll be getting it before the end of the year."
Q. Has Yellen talk to you about an oil price cap?
"Yes, and it's in play.
I belatedly tweeted a photo from the firehouse visit. Available at @mgroppe.
Passing along the following two items from the White House:
As the President discussed in his interview during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, this afternoon he and the First Lady called units from each branch of our military, stationed around the world, to thank them and their families for their service to the country.
Chief Michael Cranson gave the President several Local 2509 hats as the pumpkin pies were being delivered, one of which the President put on.
Captain Nate Barber, who was Nantucket Magazine named their person of the year for 2022 (
), was also present and signed one of the caps, telling the team that the visit was very special. Captain Barber was named person of the year after saving two people from a burning building while off-duty (
).
Passing along from the White House:
The President and the First Lady called the two owners of Club Q, Nic Grzecka and Matthew Haynes, to offer condolences. They reiterated their support for the community as well as their commitment to fighting back against hate and gun violence. They also thanked Nic and Matthew for the incredible contributions they have made and will continue to make to Colorado Springs.
POTUS' Thanksgiving menu is below.
Happy Thanksgiving - and a belated thanks to co-pooler Catherine Lucey for her help with quotes this morning.
Shrimp Cocktail
Thyme Roasted Turkey
Sherry Gravy
Classic Stuffing
Seared Scallops
Cauliflower, Capers & Lemon Butter Sauce
Cranberry Relish
Roasted Root Vegetables
Sweet Potatoes
Apple Pie
Coconut Cream Pie
Pumpkin Pie
Chocolate Chip Ice Cream