Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool is in place, awaiting Jill Biden.
Reportable from her press team:
On 
, at 
, the First Lady will receive the official 2022 White House Christmas Tree at the White House. The First Lady will welcome the tree along with fellow National Guard and Army mom, Mrs. Kelly Hokanson, the spouse of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau General, Daniel Hokanson.
The centerpiece of the holiday season, an 18 and a half foot Concolor Fir, stands floor to ceiling and fills the Blue Room of the White House. Every year, the room's chandelier is removed to accommodate the Christmas tree's full height. This year's tree will be presented by the Shealer Family of Evergreen Acres Christmas Tree Farm in Auburn, Pennsylvania, the 2022 Grand Champion Grower in the National Christmas Tree Association's annual contest.
First Lady Jill Biden received the official 2021 White House Christmas Tree on Monday, November 22nd along with a D.C. Army National Guard family to honor the role of the National Guard in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The centerpiece was an 18 and a half foot Fraser fir from Jefferson, North Carolina. This tree was presented by Rusty and Beau Estes of Peak Farms, who were named 2021 Grand Champion Grower in the National Christmas Tree Association's annual contest.
FLOTUS emerged at 3:14pm holding grandson Beau Biden's hand to receive the 18 and a half foot Concolor Fir from Evergreen Acres Christmas Tree Farm in Auburn, Pa.
The tree was pulled by horses named Ben and Winston.
"I love the tree. How do you like the tree?" FLOTUS said in response to a reporter who asked her how she likes the tree.
She introduced the Shealer family, who grew the tree.
Paul Shealer, the winner of the competition, explained the tree was planted 20 year ago.
Grandson Beau wanted to feel the fur of the horses so FLOTUS and Beau walked up to Ben and Winston to say hello.
FLOTUS then spent a few minutes with the Shealer family.
She invited them to the White House, and wished everyone a happy thanksgiving .