Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House, where we're enjoying another mild autumn day.
No changes to the schedule as of now.
Reminder that the briefing today will include national security adviser Jake Sullivan, and is set to start at 1245.
Here is the sked as sent out by the WH last night:
;
See subject line.
WH press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and national security adviser Jake Sullivan entered the briefing room and took the podium at 1257.
National security adviser Jake Sullivan took questions for about a half hour after announcing another aid package to Ukraine and previewing President Biden's upcoming foreign travel. He left the room at about 1330.
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre took questions for another half hour and ended the briefing at 1403.
Pool has loaded into the press vans on the South Lawn driveway to prepare for the motorcade to the Howard Theatre where he is scheduled to thank Democratic campaign workers.
VP Harris is also scheduled to attend.
The event will be streamed here: 
The president’s motorcade is underway at 1437 en route Howard Theatre, approximately a mile and a half away.
The motorcade actually only moved ahead about 250 feet, positioning the president’s limousine in front of the West Wing, instead of the residence.
We have resumed holding.
At 1510, the president’s motorcade is underway, for real this time.
The motorcade arrived at Howard Theatre at 1517 after a 7-minute, mile and a half drive.
The DC citizenry was particularly impressed by our passage. A percentage did the cell phone video thing.
Pool is now being hustled inside where the president is to thank campaign workers.
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Howard Theatre:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications
Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Emilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
The president, the vice president, the First lady and the second gentleman took the stage at 1526 to loud cheers from the few hundred on the floor and in the balcony.
VP Harris speaking first.
Event being streamed live:
The president came to the lectern at 1534 and thanks the staffers and volunteers in attendance.
"Tuesday was a good day for America, a good day for democracy, and a strong night for Democrats."
Per the WH press office:
The President and Vice President are delivering remarks at a political event at Howard Theatre.
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
Jaime Harrison, Chair of the Democratic National Committee
Volunteers, campaign staff, poll workers, and grassroots supporters
Jaime Harrison, Chair of the Democratic National Committee
The Vice President
The President
The president finished his remarks at 1547. He spoke about the election, boasting that he and Democrats had had a better midterm than any president's party has done in 20 years. He said election deniers running for key jobs had defeated. He said he was gratified that so many Republicans behaved civilly after losing their races, as did Democrats.
"We saw extraordinary results in this midterm that no one thought possible."
"Women in America made their voices heard, man…. You all showed up and beat the hell out of them."
He then shook hands with and chatted with those on stage for a few minutes.
Event was live streamed on YouTube.
Pool is being hustled back to the press vans.
The president’s motorcade left the theater at 1556 for the short drive back to the White House
The president’s motorcade pulled back onto the South Lawn driveway at 1603, passing several groups of tourists who waved and smiled as we passed.
The presidential limousine was parked in front of the South Portico entrance as we walked by.
The WH press office has announced a dinner lid until 2100.
President Biden emerged from the residance at 2126 and walked to the assembled press to speak to us.
More to follow.
The president took several questions:
He believed his conversation with Xi would be productive.
That the Ukraine situation could not be resolved until Putin leaves Ukraine.
That congratulated MCarthy IF he winds up winning the House.
That the House is "still alive."
Quotes coming asap.
That his remarks regarding Trump and the Constitution were about US instituons being intact regarding elections.
He spoke for just over 2 minutes, crossed the lawn to the waiting helicopter. He saluted the Marine at the forward door and climbed aboard.
At 2133, Marine 1 was aloft and en route to Joint Base Andrews to begin his weeklong foreign trip.
Handing off to my travel pool colleagues.
Re whether his conversation with Xi will be productive:
"I always think my conversations are productive."
Re how the war in Ukraine would be resolved:
"I don't think the conflict will be resolved until Putin gets out of Ukraine."
Re telling McCarthy congratulations:
"I said if you win the majority, congratulations."
Re meeting with Lula, he said he has not scheduled anything yet.
Re will he go to Georgia to campaign for Sen. Warnock?
"I plan on doing whatever he wants me to do for him."
Re can Dems still keep the House?
"It's still alive. It's still alive. But it's like drawing an inside straight."
Re his comment yesterday about how he would work, under the Constitution, to keep Trump from returning to the White House:
"I said that respecting institutions matters. One of the things that I know you all (inaudible) my talking about is whether or not we had, in America, a land that was consistent with our institutions. And I talked about whether or not there was going to be any shenanigans in the way in which we did our elections. And I notice that all of you are talking about that now."
That's all.
Please consult transcript or TV audio (they have boom mics) to check quotes.
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Until next time.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
President Joe Biden touched down in M1 at JBA at 9:43 pm EDT for his trip to Egypt, Cambodia and Indonesia. He exited the helicopter at 9:46 pm.
He walked to the plane slowly, talking to his tarmac greeter for a couple minutes, before he boarded AF1 at 9:48 pm.
He did not stop to talk to press waiting on the tarmac.
POTUS waved at the bottom of the stairs before boarding. At the top he saluted, appeared to give a thumbs up and waved again.
Wheels up on a direct flight to Sharm el-Sheikh shortly.
Still waiting on the name of the tarmac greeter but here’s who’s traveling with the president to Sharm on AF1, per the White House:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of State
Jen O’Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United States
Charlie Fromstein, National Security Council Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Adrienne Watson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Press & National Security Council Spokesperson
Stephanie Epner, Special Advisor For Climate for the National Security Council