Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon! My name is Hailey Fuchs, and I'm a reporter for Politico. I'll be your print pooler today. It's sunny but a chilly 45 degrees in Washington. Feel free to reach out with any questions. My phone number is 617 894 1155. Here's the schedule for the day from the White House:
Hi all,
Pool is gathering for the President's remarks/meeting with business and labor leaders. Those remarks will be carried on: 
Pool is waiting for the event to begin. Here's info from the White House.
From the White House:
The President will deliver remarks and meet with business and labor leaders to discuss the progress we have made building an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, and giving Americans across the country more breathing room.
Secretary Janet Yellen, Department of the Treasury
David Gitlin, Chair & CEO of Carrier
Marc Perrone, President of United Food and Commercial Workers
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Greg Adams, Chair & CEO of Kaiser Permanente
Jim Farley, President & CEO of Ford Motor Company
Ray Curry, President of United Automobile Workers
Mary Kay Henry, President of Service Employees International Union
The President
POTUS arrived to meeting with business/labor leaders at 1:39 pm.
The press was moved out of the room at around 1:47 pm. The President did not answer shouted questions.
The press briefing will now begin at 3:30pm.
The briefing will now start at 3:50 p.m., per the White House.
2-minute warning for the press briefing, given at 4 p.m.
Dinner lid was called at 4:54 until 6pm.
 
Pool Reports by 
, 
Good evening, and a happy bday to today's pooler, Hailey Fuchs.
The pool is gathering now at the White House for a very short walk and then a possible ride to a "local OTR."
At 6:57 p.m., the motorcade rode by the press vans in front of the White House, and the pool joined for the 15-second ride to the Renwick Gallery. POTUS and FLOTUS are attending the wedding rehearsal dinner of their granddaughter, Naomi Biden, and Peter Neal. The dinner is hosted by Drs. Mary and William Neal. The pool is holding in the vans.
Pool about 9:49 p.m. spotted First lady Jill Biden walking in front of the vans and back to the White House from the Renwick Gallery.
A man who appeared to be Hunter Biden (he was carrying a young child) walked out a minute later.
The motorcade about 9:51 p.m. departed the Renwick where POTUS and FLOTUS were celebrating the coming nuptials of their granddaughter, Naomi.
Pool did not see the president emerge from the building or enter the vehicle. The vans arrived at the White House at 9:53 p.m.
At 9:56.