Congressional Republicans have laid out their mega MAGA trickle-down economic plan clearly. Their economic plan will raise costs and make inflation worse. Their five part plan includes:
Congressional Republicans are calling for extending expiring provisions of the Trump tax cuts and repealing Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) provisions that require large, profitable corporations to pay taxes and stop wealthy people and corporations from cheating on their taxes. These tax policies would 
Congressional Budget Office and Joint Committee on Taxation 
 
. By adding to near-term deficits, the tax cuts would increase inflation and work against efforts to bring inflation down in 2023.
And, these tax cuts would disproportionately benefit the wealthy. Under the Congressional Republican plan, 
 
 show
That's an annual tax cut that exceeds the typical American household's total annual income.
Repealing the IRA prescription drug provisions would 
 by eliminating the requirement that drug companies pay rebates to Medicare when they raise prices faster than inflation, as they did for 
 from 2021-2022. It would expose 
 by eliminating the IRA's $2,000 cap on drug costs at the pharmacy, and 
 
 
, 
Repealing the IRA improvements to ACA premium tax credits would raise health insurance premiums by an average of 
 starting next year
 with 
And if Congressional Republicans repeal the IRA provision that lets middle-class people get ACA premium tax credits, a 60-year old making $60,000 would pay over $10,000 for marketplace coverage in most states, versus half that today.
 
The Congressional GOP plan will 
 if they buy an electric vehicle, weatherize their homes, install a super-efficient heating and cooling system like a heat pump, install rooftop solar, or make other investments that will also directly cut their energy bills. Independent experts expect these clean energy provisions will 
 by hundreds of dollars per year.
Republican officials are suing to block the Biden administration's student debt relief plan. If they succeed, that would mean higher debt payments for 
The vast majority of that relief (
) will go to those earning less than $75,000.
Sen. Rick Scott has called for putting Medicare and Social Security on the chopping block 
. Sen. Ron Johnson has gone even further and 
 Medicare and Social Security should be put up for a vote every single year.
Congressional Republicans keep declaring they will hold the American economy hostage by putting the full faith and credit of the United States at risk in order to cut Medicare and Social Security. Rep. Kevin McCarthy 
 the idea, and Rep. Nancy Mace 
 Sunday "I support this strategy."
And the Republican Study Committee, which represents a majority of House Republicans, has proposed a specific 
 to cut Medicare and Social Security benefits, including through privatization and raising the eligibility age.
Congressional Republicans will deny seniors' benefits they have already paid into.