Pool Reports by 
, 
I am today's print pooler. We have been told the briefing time has been switched to 2 pm, so I am passing it along
Pool is gathering for POTUS remarks in Roosevelt Room on actions to strengthen energy security. Remarks will be broadcast on the White House website
POTUS podium is in front of a portrait of Teddy Roosevelt on horseback. He entered from the right door with Sec Granholm and Brian Deese. He began speaking at 1:28
The President stopped speaking at 1:39. He answered several press questions afterwards. He denied that his efforts to release oil from the strategic reserve was politically motivated. He also answered a question about Putin, saying he thinks the Russian leader finds himself in an "incredibly difficult position," and has found the only tool available to him is brutalizing Ukrainian citizens. He left the room at 1:41 pm.
Today's press briefing will now start at 2:15 PM
Secretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of Energy
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the NEC
Special Presidential Coordinator Amos Hochstein
The press briefing began at 2:18 PM
The press briefing ended at 2:59 pm. Pool is gathering for POTUS remarks in South Court Auditorium on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which will be broadcast on White House website
The auditorium is decorated with battery-themed backdrops and signs that say "A Future Made in America" and "Bipartisan Infrastructure Law." POTUS entered at 3:19, sat down at a desk and began speaking
Biden is facing a screen with feeds from 10 people from companies who will benefit from the money being released today. He is at a desk on the left side of the stage. Sec. Granholm is sitting at a desk on the right.
[
]
Speakers from the companies on screen are Philip Brown of ICL Group in St. Louis, Missouri; Kimberly Medford of Entek Manufacturing in Lebanon, Oregon; Kent Masters of Albemarle, Kings Mountain, North Carolina and Ryan Melsert of American Battery Technology Company in Reno, Nevada. Others on the screen apparently will not speak.
Biden stopped speaking at 3:52. Reporters began shouting questions at him. When asked his domestic priorities, he said all were important. Biden left the stage and press were ushered to the door.
Also, apologies for numbering the past 2 Pool reports as 10. The second one should have been 11
Reporters being herded back to the press area were unexpectedly detained while President Biden engaged in a conversation on the street that runs between the White House and Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Pool could not see who he was talking to. After Biden went inside, we were allowed to proceed.
Here are more details on people who virtually participated in the battery funding event:
Ryan Melsert, CEO and Chief Technology Officer, American Battery Technology Company, Reno, Nevada
Kimberly Medford, President, Entek Manufacturing, Lebanon, Oregon
Philip Brown, CEO, ICL Group, St. Louis, Missouri
Kent Masters, CEO, Albemarle, Kings Mountain, North Carolina
Brian Goldner, Chief Geologist, Talon Nickel, Mercer County, North Dakota
Henri van Rooyen, CEO, Talon Nickel, Mercer County, North Dakota
Gene Berdichevsky, CEO and Co-Founder, Sila Nanotechnologies, Alameda, California
Anne Duncan, Vice President USA Processing Operations, Syrah Resources, Vidalia, Louisiana
Eric Stopka, CEO, Anovion Anode, Buffalo, New York
Mike O’Kronley, Ascend Elements, Hopkinsville, Kentucky
Aaron Bent, PhD, Chairman & CEO, 6K Inc, North Andover, Massachusetts
A lid was called at 4:17 pm. Have a good evening!