Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning and happy Tuesday —
It's a gloomy 56 degrees in Washington, where President Joe Biden will receive his updated COVID-19 vaccine at 2:05pm ET and deliver remarks urging Americans to do the same.
Watch here: 
The White House adds that "White House COVID-19 Response Coordinator Dr. Ashish Jha will be joining the Press Briefing with Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre," currently scheduled to follow the president at 2:45pm ET.
Watch here: 
Feel free to reach out to me directly with any questions.
Pool is now gathering at the stakeout ahead of POTUS' vaccine event in the South Court Auditorium.
Reminder that you follow along here:
… was called at 2:05pm ET, but pool is yet to enter the room. More to follow
At 2:10pm.
Watch here:
Here's a picture of POTUS at the podium with the WH COVID team behind him:
And passing along a list of attendees from the White House
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Dr. Anthony Fauci, Chief Medical Advisor and Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Dr. Ashish Jha, Coordinator, White House COVID-19 Response Team
Dr. Vivek Murthy, U.S. Surgeon General
Ms. Tracey Brown, President of Retail and Chief Customer Officer, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.
Dr. Sree Chaguturu, Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, CVS Health
Ms. Heyward Donigan, President and CEO, Rite Aid
Mr. Vivek Sankaran, CEO, Albertsons Companies, Inc.
The President
POTUS wrapped his remarks at 2:22pm before rolling up his sleeve and receiving his vaccine onstage.
He fielded a few questions from press while the shot was administered. A full transcript will be sent in a future report.
Summarized highlights below.
Q: Is COVID still a national emergency?
A: We have to make sure it doesn't become one
Q: reaction to saudis urging no SPR release
(No answer)
Q: Was it a mistake for NY to withdraw vaccine mandate for private employers?
A: No, state decision
Q: reaction to reports regarding Russian false flag nuclear attack?
A: It would be a mistake for Russia to launch a nuclear attack. Would not say whether he thought Russia would or not… he's been talking to NatSec team today about Russia potentially using dirty bomb
Passing along from WH
The President receives his updated COVID-19 vaccine from a member of the White House Medical Unit.
Otter link:
Q/A transcript
Q: Mr. President, is COVID still a national emergency?
Q: What's your reaction to the Saudis on oil urging the US not to use the reserves?
Q: Sir, do you think it's a mistake for New York to withdraw it's mandate for vaccines?
Q: Do you think it's a mistake for New York to withdraw its vaccine mandate for private employers?
Q: What is your next move now that Brittney Griner lost her appeal, Mr. President?
Q: On the dirty bomb allegations from Russia as it relates to Ukraine. Do you believe that this is the beginning of a false flag operation? Is Russia preparing to deploy a dirty bomb itself or a nuclear weapon?
... until 3:15pm ET, per White House
Reminder that Dr. Ashish Jha will join WH press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre. Watch here: 
Watch the briefing here:
... called at 5:03pm ET.
Have a great Tuesday evening, y'all!