Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from Rehoboth Beach, Del. The pool's call time has been pushed from 11am to noon.
There is nothing on the president's public schedule. It's a glorious sunny day and there are plenty of folks enjoying a stroll along the boardwalk and the beach a couple miles south of the Biden house.
Call time moved to 1p, from noon and before that, 11a.
That is all.
Call time for pool has been pushed back again, to 2:45pm.
The president's motorcade rolled at 3:52pm. Pool had held for a while at the entrance to Cape Henlopen State Park.
Just outside the president's neighborhood the motorcard passed a lone jogger along the road. He glanced back once or twice but otherwise seemed unfazed.
A deer -- a fair sized buck -- dashed across the road between vehicles moments later, joining another buck in the brush off to the left . It was unscathed by the slow speed motorcade.
The motorcade then passed the pool motel before crossing the main drag in Rehoboth Beach. Onlookers had cell phones out.
We pulled to a stop at St. Edmund's Catholic Church at 4p. The president was inside before pool was close enough to see or get photos.
Pool holding on sidewalk outside the church.
Pool still holding outside St. Edmond
Catholic Church in Rehoboth Beach.
A small number of onlookers are hanging around awaiting a glimpse.
President Biden walked out of St. Edmond Catholic Church in Rehoboth Beach at 4:54p.
A cheer went up from a few dozen people diagonally across the street. The president smiled and waved the program or pamphlet in his hand and after chatting vey briefly with the priest he got into his SUV. He did not acknowledge a question shouted from some distance by the pool as to whether he's worried about going on in China.
Rolling back to his neighborhood. Typical onlookers through town.
President Biden was back to his neighborhood near Cape Henlopen State Park at 5:02pm.
No deer on the return drive. But sharp eyed poolers spotted a pair of bald eagles surveying the scene from atop an 8-story residence just outside the Biden neighborhood.
A lid is expected soon.
We have a lid for the evening.
That's it from Rehoboth for today.