Today, the White House announced that the American Rescue Plan – through its historic $24 billion Child Care Stabilization Program – has already provided 
. Stabilization funds have already assisted 
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services also released a 
 of the American Rescue Plan’s (ARP) Child Care Stabilization program that details for the first time the number of child care providers that have already been helped in each state.
The Child Care Stabilization program has been critical to helping child care centers and family child care providers, which are mostly very small businesses, remain open or reopen and keep the child care workforce, disproportionately women of color, on the payroll. The stabilization program provided grants to child care programs that helped with basic operational costs like wages and benefits, rent and utilities, and program materials and supplies. Many states will continue to provide assistance to child care programs over the next year.
:
:
Rather than see more workers leave and more programs close, with aid from the American Rescue Plan, 
. One preliminary 
 from March of 2022 found that assistance from the American Rescue Plan and other Federal support had already helped prevent nearly 75,000 permanent child care program closures—preserving care for more than 3 million young children.
In addition to the Child Care Stabilization program, 
. The American Rescue Plan provided the largest-ever federal award to states through the Child Care and Development Fund, delivering flexible funding for states to help make high-quality child care more affordable and more accessible for more families. With support from the American Rescue Plan:
For example, 
 was able to raise the income eligibility for working families to receive support from roughly $55,000 for a family of four to roughly $111,000. As of June 2022, the state has served over 1,500 additional children, and 10,000 families have benefitted from waived copayments.
. The American Rescue Plan provided the largest ever increase in the maximum Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) in 2021. Families with two children under age 13 earning the median income were eligible for up to $8,000 towards child care expenses, a more than six-fold increase over the previous year’s credit. The American Rescue Plan also made the CDCTC fully refundable in 2021, enabling lower-income parents to receive the full benefit regardless of their tax liability.
The American Rescue Plan’s historic expansion of the Child Tax Credit also aided working parents —delivering $3,000 per child ages 6-17 years old and $3,600 per child under age 6 to the vast majority of families, including through first-time ever advance monthly payments that reached tens of millions of families. An October 2021 
 from the Census Bureau found that roughly 1 in 4 families with young children used advance Child Tax Credit payments to help cover the cost of child care.
. The American Rescue Plan included historic support for state, local, and Tribal governments to support their response to and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic through the State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, including to address child care needs. For example, 
 is using Fiscal Recovery Funds to lower child care costs for parents by covering co-payments for eligible low- and moderate-income families, as well as dedicating additional funds through the Nevada Child Care Expansion Program for construction projects that will expand current child care capacity and increase the availability of quality, affordable child care for Nevadans. Similarly, 
 is using Fiscal Recovery Funds for a Child Care Facilities Improvement Pilot Program that will pay for improvements that foster high-quality early childhood learning environments and is providing financial assistance to support child care centers and family child care programs with workforce recruitment and retention costs.
While the American Rescue Plan has helped provide this critical lifeline to child care providers during a period of crisis, many child care programs 
 to make ends meet long before the pandemic and the cost of care has been rising for years before the pandemic – leading families to struggle to find, and afford, quality care. President Biden will continue fighting to ensure families can access and afford quality child care.