Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Los Angeles.
The motorcade started rolling to the Santa Monica Airport at 1:26 p.m.
Pool was loaded into vans ahead of POTUS’ departure so we did not see him enter the Beast.
The motorcade arrived at Santa Monica Airport at 1:35.
POTUS boarded M1 at 1:37.
We are headed to the John Wayne Airport Landing Zone.
From the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
M1 was wheels down at 2:06 p.m at John Wayne Airport.
POTUS walked out of M1 at 2:13 and shook hands with the mayor. They had a brief conversation on the tarmac and took a selfie. POTUS then entered the Beast and motorcade is rolling to Irvine Valley Community College.
From the White House:
Farrah Khan, Mayor of Irvine, CA
The motorcade arrived at Irvine Valley Community College at 2:29.
A few hundred Iran protestors were gathered outside the college as the motorcade pulled in. People were waving Iranian flags and some held signs that said "Free Iran."
POTUS entered an outdoor courtyard at the college at 2:59 alongside Rep. Katie Porter. His remarks are being live-streamed.
The White House also handed out brochures to attendees at the event contrasting Biden's and Sen. Rick Scott's policies. Your pool is unable to send photos but if you'd like to see the brochure, you see it here:
From the White House:
 
Rep. Katie Porter (
)
Susan Meyer, California Alliance for Retired Americans
The President
 
Rep. Katie Porter (
)
Rep. Lou Correa (
)
California Senator David Min (District 37)
California Assemblymember Cottie Petrie-Norris, (74th Assembly District)
Chairman Doug Chaffee, Orange County Board of Supervisors
Before launching into his prepared remarks, POTUS made brief comments on Iran, acknowledging the protestors outside the college.
As always, check quotes against the transcript.
"We stand with the citizens and brave women of Iran," he said, adding, "Women all over the world are being persecuted."
He then said Iran had "to end the violence against its own citizens."
Commenting on Mahsa Amini's death, POTUS said: "It stunned me what it awakened in Iran.
He concluded: "I want to thank you all for speaking out."
"I want to thank the Persian community here for being so vocal"
POTUS ended his remarks at 3:27 and started shaking hands on the rope line.
Pool was pulled from the event as POTUS continued to shake hands on the rope line.
The motorcade was rolling at 3:56
A group of pro-Trump protestors lined the street as the motorcade exited the college.
Otherwise, we had an uneventful ride back to John Wayne Airport.
The motorcade pulled into the airport at 4:09, and POTUS boarded AF1 before pool exited the vans.
We should be wheels up to Portland shortly.
AF1 was wheels down at 6:13 pm
POTUS walked off the plane at 6:25 and was holding a white paper Air Force One bag. He then took out a cupcake and gave it to Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, who is celebrating her birthday today, per the White House.
At one point he took out paper from his jacket pocket and a pen and gave it to one of the greeters who wrote something down. Pool was too far away to see what was written.
POTUS continued chatting with the greeters for a few minutes and then entered the Beast.
Motorcade rolling shortly.
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1)
Brigadier General Donna Prigmore, Commander, Oregon Air National Guard
Colonel Todd A. Hofford, Commander, 142nd Air Wing
After an uneventful ride, the motorcade arrived at SEIU Local 49 in Portland at 6:54.
POTUS is stopping by a grassroots volunteer event hosted by Oregon Democrats.
Inside the union hall, dozens of people were sitting at tables, making calls to voters. The room was adorned with signs for Tina Kotek, the Democratic nominee for governor, and Ron Wyden, who is up for re-election.
From the White House:
Senator Ron Wyden (OR)
Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)
Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1)
Senator Ron Wyden (OR)
POTUS walked into the room at 7:11 holding a box of donuts from Sesame Donuts. He was joined by Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, Rep. Suzanne Bonamici and Tina Kotek, the Democratic nominee for governor.
POTUS began by saying this year's midterm elections are the most important off-year elections since Roosevelt.
"I'm here because Ron Wyden has been such an incredible chairman," he said, going on to praise Wyden's work on tax reform in the Senate.
He also thanked Oregon Democrats for their help in his election, saying it was nice "to win by 16 points."
POTUS then talked about Democrats' legislative record, specifically efforts to raise taxes on corporations and lower the costs of prescription drugs.
As POTUS thanked the Oregon delegation, he walked over to Rep. Bonamici and put his hand around her.
"By the way it's her birthday today… she just turned 30," he said.
He then walked over and grabbed Kotek's hand and the two walked to the center of the room as volunteers cheered
"What a governor does matters," he said.
POTUS wrapped up his remarks with his usual refrain about his optimism about the future of the United States.
POTUS concluded his remarks at 7:21 and joined a table of volunteers to call voters.
Before he started making calls, he grabbed a
donut from the box he brought and ripped off a piece of one chocolate-covered Long John donut and ate it.
POTUS appeared to connect with some voters on the phone, but the pool was stationed at the back of the room and could not hear any of the conversations. At one point, POTUS moved to another volunteer and put on her headset to talk to voter.
POTUS spent an extended amount of time on one phone call, pacing around the room as he held up an iPhone to his ear.
POTUS then took a second donut. This time the whole one and it was glazed.
Pool was ushered out of the union hall at 7:41 as POTUS was still sitting with volunteers and finishing his donut.
Motorcade started rolling at 7:57 p.m.
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:04 p.m.
A lid was called at 8:05.
 
Pool Report below by 
, 
Good evening. A gaggle aboard AF1 began roughly 10 minutes ago with Karine Jean-Pierre and is ongoing.