Pool Reports by 
, 
President took a few questions before departing. Said Russian attacks on civilians "beyond the pale." Said he saw no movement fro. Putin on Brittany Gruber. Said dems can still win in Georgia Senate race.
The president took a few questions from the pool before walking to Marine One for the trip to Joint Base Andrews.
He was asked his reaction to the Herschel Walker controversy and can the Democrats hold the seat. He responded, "Negative. And yes."
Told that some members of Congress have called for an end to U.S. arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he was asked if he supports that. "We're going to react to Saudi Arabia and we're doing consultation when they come back. We will take action."
Asked his reaction to Russian attacks on civilians in Ukraine, he responded, "Same as always, man. It's brutal. It's beyond the pale."
Asked if he has seen any movement on the case of Brittney Griner, he responded, "Not with Putin." As he was walking away it sounded like he was asked about his desire to codify Roe v Wade into law. It sounded like he repeated his position that he supports that. As always, check the official transcript because it was difficult to hear him.
He emerged from the White House at 9:38 a.m. and Marine One lifted off at 9:45.
From the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from JBA.
M1 landed at 9:53 a.m.
POTUS, wearing sunglasses and no tie, waved to the press and then boarded AF1.
We will be wheels up to Colorado shortly.
One logistical note: We are traveling on the smaller AF1 for the duration of this swing so pool reports may be delayed around take off and landing due to service limitations.
From the White House:
Colonel William McDonald
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
AF1 was wheels down at 11:37 am local time
POTUS exited AF1 at 11:46 and chatted with Colorado officials and Sec. Vilsack. POTUS and the officials broke out into laughter at one point but pool was stationed too far away to hear the conversation.
Sen. Hickenlooper told your pooler that the group was making "political jokes" though he did not share additional details.
Motorcade rolling to Camp Hale at 11:53
Governor Jared Polis (CO)
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-02)
The motorcade arrived at Camp Hale in Leadville, Colorado at 12:56 p.m. The pool
split away from the rest of the motorcade and drove about 5 minutes further down the road and arrived at a difference entrance.
We had an uneventful, but scenic ride from the airport here. The service is spotty here so apologies in advance for any delayed pool reports.
The event will be live-streamed. POTUS is expected to speak around 1:30 pm local time
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 1:57 pm.
He was then joined by the Colorado delegation, Secretary Vilsack, Chair Mallory, veterans and park service officials to sign the official declaration.
Pool was then quickly ushered out of the event and did not see POTUS leave.
Motorcade expected to be rolling shortly
The motorcade arrived at Eagle County Regional Airport at 3:58.
POTUS exited his SUV and boarded AF1 at 3:59 as press was exiting the vans.
Wheels up to Los Angeles shortly
Passing this along from the White House:
Governor Jared Polis (CO)
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-2)
Kim Langmaid, Mayor of Vail
 
Governor Jared Polis (CO)
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-2)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Senator Michael Bennet (CO)
Scott Fitzwilliams, Forest Service Ranger
The President
AF1 was wheels down at LAX at 4:47.
POTUS walked down the stairs at 4:54 and greeted CA officials. He boarded M1 at 4:57 and is expected to be wheels up to Santa Monica shortly. Pool is headed to the ospreys.
Senator Alex Padilla (CA) and Angela Padilla, spouse of Senator Padilla
Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37)
Mayor Eric Garcetti, Mayor of Los Angeles (CA)
M1 landed at Santa Monica Airport at 5:08 p.m. POTUS exited M1 at 5:13 and shook hands and posed for a photo with Mayor Sue Himmelrich of Santa Monica.
Pool was stationed too far away to shout questions.
POTUS entered the Beast at 5:15. Motorcade rolling to RON shortly.
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 5:27 after a quick and uneventful motorcade — thanks to the 405 northbound lanes between the Santa Monica Freeway and Wilshire Blvd being shut down during Los Angeles rush hour. (h/t LAT's Eli Stokols)
Throngs of people gathered on the streets by UCLA's campus as the motorcade drove by.
Lid was called at 5:30