Pool Reports by 
, 
President Biden, wearing a blue suit and trademark aviators, was spotted entering the motorcade at 12:23.
The motorcade departed the White House on this beautiful, crisp Autumn day at 11:27.
We are headed to the Howard Theatre where POTUS is expected to deliver remarks about abortion.
The White House passes along the following:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Vinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Acting Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
The motorcade arrived at the Howard Theatre without incident at 12:32.
POTUS not spotted entering the theatre.
I'm told the event will be livestreamed on the Biden campaign's social media channels.
POTUS began speaking at 12:44. It is live-streamed. He opened by saying "we're only 22 days away from the most consequential election in our history."
He was introduced by Dr. Jennifer Villavicencio, an OBGYN.
A good-sized crowd turned out at the Howard Theatre. The floor is packed. Supporters are in the balcony as well.
Supporters holding signs that say "Restore Roe" and "Defend Choice" and "Elect Democrats" are to his left and right on stage.
POTUS promised that if Democrats control the Congress next year, he will work to codify abortion rights.
"Here is the promise I make to you and the American people, the first bill I'll send to Congress is to codify Roe v Wade," he said.
Earlier in his speech, Biden said that, in Dobbs, SCOTUS "practically dared" women to turn out and vote. He predicted that those voters would turn out in support of Democrats.
He reiterated his argument that the Dobbs case endangers other established rights like gay marriage and access to contraception.
He said of Sen. Lindsey Graham's proposed abortion ban that, if it ever makes it to his desk, "I'll veto it."
He mentioned also his infrastructure bill, gun control, student debt amnesty, and marijuana pardons.
Biden said abortion rights do not rest with the Supreme Court anymore. Instead, he told the crowd, the issue is up to Congress and "the final say about your right to choose rests with you."
Remarks concluded at 12:57. POTUS now shaking hands and taking selfies with supporters on stage.
Motorcade pulled away at 1:18. We are headed to White House.
The motorcade arrived at the White House at 1:24. Pool glimpsed POTUS walking through the door of the Oval Office.
Commander welcomed the pool back with not entirely unfriendly barks from behind the gate of the East Wing garden.
White House announces just now that the press briefing will start at 2:00pm.
Buckle Up! Here we go.
The White House called a lid at 3:28pm.