Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! I'm your pooler today. The White House has just informed us that there's been a bad weather call and President Biden will arrive to the White House via motorcade that the in town pool will cover.
The pool gathered at stakeout around 10:15 and we are now in vans headed to JBA to meet Air Force One.
So right before we left the White House grounds, we held and the bad weather call was rescinded. So now the in-town pool is headed back to the WH. President Biden will arrive via Marine One to White House.
Arrival time is still slated for same time.
Also the press briefing is now at 1:15.
Press is gathered and awaiting Biden's arrival on Marine One.
Marine One landed at 12:38. President Biden walked off, ignoring shouted questions from reporters and walked into the Oval Office.
Reminder that press briefing is slated for 1:15.
Two minute warning called for briefing.
Flagging the White House has added an event in South Court with President Biden delivering "an update on the student debt relief portal beta test."
Secretary Miguel Cardona will attend.
Pool called to gather for the president’s remarks on the student loans. White House says the event will be live-streamed. We’re a few minutes behind schedule.
2 minute warning to president Biden’s remarks.
The president walked out around 3:14 with Secretary Cardona.
Top lines:
He spoke until about 3:21 and answered two shouted questions:
The first was if he was worried litigation would get in the way:
"Yes it will. Litigation is underway. Our legal judgement is that it won't."
Whether people with privately held loans would be able to use the program.
Secretary Cardona answered: "Working on pathways there."
White House called a travel and photo lid at 3:41. Have a good rest of your day!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning,
This is your out-of-town pooler checking in from Wilmington.
Mr. Biden is scheduled to depart from DANG aboard Air Force One en route to JBA at 11:25 a.m.
Morning,
The motorcade departed from President Biden's residence en route to DANG at 11:24 a.m.
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa
[
]
President Biden arrived at DANG at 11:35 a.m. after an uneventful motorcade.
The pooler spotted one older gentleman filming the motorcade on his phone from the side of the road as it passed by. No crowds were spotted.
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa
Mr. Biden exited the Beast and immediately boarded AF1 at 11:37 a.m. as the pool exited the press van. He did not take questions.
Press is now abord AF1band will be wheels up soon.
Air Force One landed at JBA at 12:09 p.m.
President Biden exited at 12:18 and walked directly to Marine One without taking questions from the press.
Marine One was wheels up en route to the White House at 12:25 p.m.
Sequence correction to previous out-of-town pool report:
The previous out-of-town report detailing President Biden's party aboard Air Force One was labeled incorrectly as report #3. It was report #4.