Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Los Angeles
POTUS' motorcade started rolling at 10:44 from the RON. Pool did not see POTUS and press vans were not part of the motorcade.
We arrived at the LA Metro project where POTUS will speak about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law at 10:51
Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti just started speaking. Here is background from the White House on today's event:
Mayor Eric Garcetti, Los Angeles, CA
County Supervisor Hilda Solis, Los Angeles County (District 1)
Representative Ted Lieu (CA-33)
Senator Alex Padilla (CA)
Representative Karen Bass (CA-37)
Yurvina Hernandez, Level 4 Apprentice, Purple Line Extension Section 3 Tunnels Project
The President
POTUS walked on stage on 11:16 alongside Rep. Karen Bass and Yurvina Hernandez. He is expected to speak shortly and his remarks will be livestreamed.
From the White House:
Senator Alex Padilla, (CA)
Rep. Karen Bass (CA-37)
Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33)
Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30)
Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43)
Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44)
Mayor Eric Garcetti, Los Angeles, CA
Ambassador Cynthia Telles, U.S. Ambassador to Costa Rica
County Supervisor Hilda Solis, Los Angeles County (District 1)
Chair Holly Mitchell, Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors (District 2)
The president began speaking at 11:21 a.m.
POTUS finished his remarks at 11:44 and then started shaking hands and taking selfies with guests in the audience.
Pool was ushered out of the event as POTUS was still greeting guests.
The motorcade started rolling at 12:09
The motorcade made an unannounced stop at Tacos 1986, a Mexican restaurant near the RON, at 12:13
POTUS entered the restaurant at 12:16 p.m. along with Rep. Karen Bass and Hilda Solis.
Biden asked for a "takeout order for Bass" and then took out cash to pay, asking, "What do we owe you?" POTUS was told he received a 50 percent "public service" discount.
POTUS gave the cashier $60 and told him to give the next customer their meal for free.
POTUS told the pool he ordered chicken quesadillas and then answered a few questions.
On rising gas prices: "Nationwide, they came down about $1.35 and they're still down over a dollar but we're going to work on housing … That's the most important thing we have to do.
What's your message to Saudi Arabia: "We're about to talk to you."
What are you going to say: "Stay tuned."
On midterms: "I'm going to other races. I can't tell you how many but I'm going to be on the road.
POTUS Re-entered the Beast at 12:20 and pool started rolling at 12:22.
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 12:25 and we have a lunch lid til 6:15.
A bit more color from the restaurant:
Per a receipt, the group ordered one asada quesadilla, one pollo quesadilla, two asada tacos and four pollo tacos. The total order, after the discount, was $16.45.
Also an additional quote on the Saudi Arabia exchange. POTUS was asked what his message to the Saudis was and said, "we're about to talk to you." He then clarified, "We're about to talk to them."
Motorcade started rolling at 6:44 p.m. en route to the DCCC fundraiser.
Pool did not see POTUS enter the Beast
The motorcade arrived at a private home in Brentwood at 6:58. The press vans were briefly separated from the motorcade during the short ride over so we did not see POTUS arrive.
Pool holding in vans ahead of POTUS remarks.
Pool is still holding outside and we have asked who is hosting POTUS and have not yet received a response.
In the meantime, here's some details from the White House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Chairman of the DCCC
Rep. Steven Horsford (NV-04)
Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33)
Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-28)
Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30)
Rep. Dina Titus (NV-01)
The fundraiser is being hosted at the home of Marcia Carsey. Pool still holding and saw Tom Ford milling about outside.
The White House initially listed Rep. Adam Schiff as a participant in the photo line, but an official tells us he did not make it to the event.
POTUS entered a tent in the backyard at 7:53 p.m. alongside Speaker Pelosi.
Pelosi spoke first, thanking Marcia Carsey, the host, and praising Biden's leadership and legislative record.
"This president came into office with a vision about greatness for our country," she said.
She concluded: "This is a great president."
POTUS began speaking at 8:02.
He opened by thanking Pelosi and joking he was "going home" after she completed her remarks. He then called Pelosi "the single best speaker in American history."
POTUS launched into a familiar refrain about America facing "an inflection point" and the importance of American leadership on the global stage. He then discussed the technological changes fracturing society and lamenting the difficulty of discerning the truth.
"There are no editors anymore," he said. "The ability of newspapers to have much impact is de minimis."
On Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine, POTUS said his staff has calculated he has spent more than 225 hours directly in contact with the heads of state of NATO and EU "just holding [the coalition] together." He then asked if anyone would have thought a Russian leader since the Cuban Missile Crisis would threaten to use tactical nuclear weapons.
When discussing other global threats, Biden called Pakistan one of the most dangerous nations in the world, saying it had "nuclear weapons without any cohesion."
Touted his legislative record, he said, "It's fair to say that we've gotten more done in the past two years than any president in the past has."
In discussing the gun safety bill he signed, Biden said: "Look what happened today in two different places with AK-47s. They're weapons of war. They have no place in society."
Biden also criticized Sen. Rick Scott (R-Fla.) and Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and the policies they have advocated, warning that "the right to choose, the right to privacy … and our very democracy" were on the ballot in November.
He said he would veto any bill that tried to implement a national abortion ban.
POTUS also praised the work of the Jan. 6 committee, in particular Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) even though he said they "agree on virtually nothing of substance."
"I think we're going to see some real change as a consequence of the work of the committee," he said.
Biden concluded by expressing his optimism about the country's future and asking attendees to support Democrats in November: w"Please, please, please keep a Democratic House of Representatives."
POTUS concluded his remarks at 8:30 p.m. and pool was ushered out.
Motorcade started rolling at 8:39
Some color of the event (with gratitude to co-pooler Eli Stokols for his assistance):
The fundraiser took place beneath a large white tent in an outdoor area behind the home's garage. More than 100 guests sat in rows of chairs facing a podium before a backdrop of greenery. Others lingered along the sides, including DCC Chairman Sean Patrick Maloney. A bar was set up in the back of the tent; small vases of zinnias sat on scattered cocktail tables. Paul Pelosi, Bill Nye and members of Congress were spotted mingling before Biden Pelosi appeared.
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:52
A lid was called at 8:54