Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from Austin where the VP is scheduled to speak on reproductive rights at University of Texas at Austin and will later speak at the Johnson-Jordan Reception hosted by Texas Democrats.
VP landed at 2:25 p.m. at the South Terminal of the Austin-Bergstrom International Airport. VP departed from Joint Base Andrews about two hours earlier.
VP disembarked at 2:37 p.m. to blue skies, scattered clouds, mid 80s.
US Congressman Lloyd Doggett, Austin Mayor Steve Adler and Travis County Judge Andy Brown greeted the VP. They chatted for a few minutes, VP gave a wave to the pool before getting in black SUV to drive to UT Austin.
VP arrived at the Lyndon Baines Johnson Presidential Library on the University of Texas at Austin's campus at 3:03 p.m.
VP is scheduled to be joined by Mini Timmaraju, President of NARAL Pro-Choice America, and Julieta Garibay, Senior Capacity Building Director for Groundswell Fund.
There were about 140 people in attendance who were invited by the LBJ school of public affairs at UT Austin, LBJ library and Vice Presidents Office. The attendees were mostly undergraduate and graduate students.
VP was asked eight questions about reproductive rights by moderators Mini Timmaraju, President of NARAL Pro-Choice America, Julieta Garibay, Senior Capacity Building Director for Groundswell Fund and audience members, who had previously submitted questions.
The VP spoke about reproductive rights in the context of her family history (her mother was an advocate for access to reproductive health as a breast cancer researcher) , her works as a prosecutor in California and California senator and the efforts of the Biden/Harris administration.
VP mentioned the importance of speaking on reproductive rights at the LBJ Library, given former President Lyndon B Johnson's impact on voting and civil rights. Luci Baines Johnson, the former president's daughter, was in attendance.
VP said that people don't need to abandon their beliefs to know that the government should not be making reproductive health decisions. The crowd applauded to this remark.
VP said the Biden/Harris admin is working with DOJ to collaborate with state Attorney Generals to ensure Americans have a right to travel. Harris made a point to single out Texas AG Ken Paxton as one state leader that the Biden/Harris administration is has not worked with.
VP made a point of championing young leaders and their role in advocating for reproductive rights. She said it was critical to build coalitions with other groups who are seeing attacks on their rights (LGBTQ+, women and voting rights in general). VP pointed to the work of advocates in Kansas who rejected a proposal to restrict reproductive access. "I'm so in awe of those people in Kansas who said, 'Mhhmhh, we're not having it,'" said the VP.
Additional quotes:
"I have someone who's close to me, whose sister-in-law, just a couple of weeks ago, who died in childbirth. This is 2022 in America." said VP when asked by an audience member sitting in the front about what the Biden/Harris administration is doing to address disparities in maternal mortality rates. VP said Black women in Texas are three times more likely to die in childbirth than white women, regardless of education or socioeconomic status. After answering the question, VP smiled at the questioner who appeared to be a young woman and said that they needed her efforts to keep fighting for reproductive rights.
"Let's take the flag back, this is about freedom and liberty," VP said in response to a question from Timmaraju about how she views the fight for abortion moving forward.
"A democracy will be as strong as our willingness to fight for it," said VP in response to a question about what makes her hopeful for the future, a question submitted by an audience member.
VP arrived at the Hyatt Regency Hotel just before 5 p.m. for the Johnson-Jordan Reception hosted by the Texas Democrats.
A preview of the VP's speech was shared on background from a Democratic official:
Texas Democratic Party Chairman Gilberto Hinojosa introduced VP. He said the stakes of the November election could not be higher and gave a shout out to the top Democratic candidates: Dem. Gov. candidate Beto O'Rourke, Dem Lt. Gov. candidate Mike Collier and Dem AG candidate Rochelle Garza.
Just before announcing Harris, Hinojosa said that this year's JJ Reception was the highest grossing in TX Democrat's history. The crowd responded with a big applause.
VP took the stage at 5:44 p.m. and spoke for 22 minutes.
"You all are doing some heavy lifting," VP said in greeting the audience, referring to Texas Democrats. "We know what you're doing here in Texas and we know you stay committed." The VP thanked the Texas democrats, calling them "Texas tough, tough like Texas president Lyndon B. Johnson."
Harris congratulates UT football (Longhorns) on today's win against the Oklahoma Sooners.
VP recounts meeting the Texas Democrats that broke quorum in June 2021 in protest of the Republican-led efforts that the Dems said would restrict voting rights. "Those legislators came to the White House ... because they knew this was not a Texas fight, but a national fight," said the VP.
VP notes that Biden/Harris received the largest vote for Democratic ticket in Texas in history.
VP highlights recent achievements of the Biden/Harris admin, with each item receiving a round of applause from the audience:
Harris mentions Abbott and the restrictions to reproductive healthcare in Texas, to which the crowd boos. "We trust the women of America, we trust the women of Texas," said VP.

"Where do we think this is heading?" VP asks. She suggests that GOP leaders will next target contraception, marriage equality and social security.
VP reiterate the need to pay attention to local elections, mentioning local prosecutor and secretary of state races.
VP gives explicit endorsement of O'Rourke: "Elect Beto O'Rourke as your next governor." VP adds the need for Democrats to hold onto US House and expand majority in Senate.
On the Democrats narrow majority in the Senate, which VP is the president of, she said that she has cast more tie-breaking votes than the previous record holder, Vice President John Adams, who was the nation's first VP. "I can't wait to cast the tie-breaking vote to pass voting rights and reproductive rights," said VP.
VP ended remarks at 6:06 p.m. and traveled back to Austin-Bergstrom Airport.
VP took a photo with staffers before boarding AF2 at 6:37 CT p.m.
At 6:52 p.m. CT AF2 took off for Joint Base Andrews.
Signing off as pool, feel free to email me with any questions.