Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new actions by more than 20 agencies to bolster the Federal Government's resilience to the worsening impacts of climate change. These actions are detailed in annual agency adaptation progress reports and highlight an Administration-wide commitment to confronting the climate crisis by integrating climate-readiness across every agency's mission and programs.

More frequent and severe weather events, including droughts, extreme heat, wildfires, floods, and hurricanes, create mounting climate-related damages nationwide. Climate-related disasters impact millions of Americans each year when roads wash out, power goes down, homes and businesses burn, crops fail, and schools flood. Last year alone, the United States faced 20 extreme weather and climate related disaster events with losses exceeding $1 billion each—a cumulative price tag of more than $145 billion. The Federal Government's employees, assets, and operations are exposed to these same impacts. With a footprint of over 300,000 buildings, over 600,000 vehicles, and the responsibility for delivering critical goods and services, the Biden-Harris Administration is minimizing disruptions, creating safer working conditions, strengthening supply chains, saving taxpayer money, and sustaining our mission.

In February 2021, President Biden charged agencies to revitalize Federal climate adaptation efforts through 
.

In October 2021, Federal agencies 
 that identified and addressed their most significant climate risks. Through these plans, agencies initiated actions to address a broad range of risks, including to programs, facilities, worker safety, supply chains, grants, and contracts. As part of this work, the White House also launched an effort to rebuild the Federal Government's information resources and capacity to act on climate data. For example, in September 2022, the Administration launched a first-of-its-kind climate adaptation training for Federal program acquisition managers. The training provides a high-level overview on how to manage climate risks, including how climate change hazards may impact Federal programs and what steps they can take to prepare for these impacts. While the training is tailored for a community of approximately 1,500 Federal program acquisition managers, over 250,000 Federal Acquisition Institute users can take the course.

In addition to shoring up Federal Government operations and programs, the Biden-Harris Administration continues to work with states, Tribes, and local governments in a coordinated effort to protect America's communities, economies, and infrastructure from the most severe impacts of climate change. Further, the Administration has worked closely with Congress to provide key adaptation investments supported by President Biden's 
 and 
, including $50 billion in investments to protect American infrastructure against catastrophic wildfires, heat, and floods, and $4.5 billion for drought preparedness.

The reports released today show significant progress made by agencies to bolster adaptation and increase resilience to climate impacts. Highlights from the 
 are below:
