Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House on a sunny day.
According to the daily guidance, POTUS is due to depart from the south lawn at 11.05am en route Joint Base Andrews. He will then head to Hagerstown, Maryland, where at 12.35pm he will tour Volvo Group Powertrain Operations and at 1.35pm deliver remarks on the economy. At 2.40pm he is due to go to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and on to Wilmington, Delaware for the weekend.
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS departure.
POTUS, wearing dark blue suit, white shirt and sunglasses, emerged from the south portico at 11.20am and turned left, meeting and greeting onlookers, some of whom took selfies with him on their phones. He worked the full rope line, giving pretty much everyone a turn.
POTUS then broke into a trot straight towards Marine One, giving reporters no chance to ask questions, and lifted off at 11.27am.
From the White House:
'
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary'
From the White House:
'Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One in the next 2-5 minutes.'
Live stream here:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One touched down at JBA at 11:36 a.m.
Potus exited M1 at 11:40. He did not take questions from the press, and boarded Air Force one at 11:41.
We are about to take off. There will be a short gaggle during the short flight to Hagerstown.
FYI we are aboard the small AF1, with all the communications issues that entails.
Below is from the WH:
Col Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
More soon.
AF1 took off at 11:50 a.m. and touched down at 12:15 p.m. The gaggle lasted from 12:07 to 12:14. You heard it via the White House's various channels.
POTUS exited the plane at 12:24. He chatted with greeters out of hearing distance from the pool but did not answer questions from the press about nuclear armageddon. He entered the Beast at 12:26 and was rolling a minute later.
Onward to the motorcade.
From the WH:
Emily Keller, Mayor of Hagerstown
Rep. David Trone (MD-06)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Shuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs & House Liaison
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Pool enjoyed a lovely ride through sunny western Maryland en route the Volvo factory.
Folks along the way waved and filmed with their phones. A smaller group gave thumbs downs and middle fingers, one Trump flag. One sign spotted: "do something for the immigrants."
We arrived at the factory at 12:33 p.m. Shiny semi trucks dot the parking lot. Pool did not see POTUS before we entered the factory at 12:38.
More soon.
POTUS entered the Volvo factory at 12:46.
He began introducing himself and chatting with workers. I'm told this factory makes parts but there are no finished vehicles on site.
Workers explained to POTUS how various parts operate. Press was ushered out mid-discussion, but he said the assembly was "amazing" and represents the future.
Speech is next.
We are now holding in a large room with exposed ducts and giant fans hanging from the ceiling. There are perhaps 200 people here, including factory workers, executives, area politicians, members of the press and Biden staffers. Along with Volvo Trucks signage, there's a banner at the back reading "We are the heart & we keep the heart beating." Soundtrack includes The Cranberries and Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros.
The speech will be streamed. Let me know if you have any questions!
From the WH:
Rep. David Trone (MD-06)
Marty Weissburg, President, Mack Trucks and Chairman, Volvo Group North America
Mitchell Smith, Director, UAW Region 8
Amanda Adao Brooks, Manufacturing Engineer for Electromobility, EMOB
Cheryl Carbaugh, EMB Tech, UAW Member
Robert Heath, Quality Tech, UAW Member
Sara Carper, Project Manager
Spencer Hunter Sanon, Team Leader, UAW Member
Austin Miller, Production Tech, UAW Member
Rep. David Trone (MD-06)
Emily Keller, Mayor of Hagerstown
Howard Long, Mayor of Boonsboro
Donald Sounders Jr., Mayor of Smithsburg
Ariana Kelly, State Delegate (MD-16)
Shelley McIntire, Councilwoman of Hagerstown
Tiara Burnett, Councilwoman of Hagerstown
The Hagerstown event began at 1:09. POTUS took the stage at 1:24 and spoke until 1:46.
I'll spare full quotes owing to the stream, but the remarks were similar to those delivered yesterday in Poughkeepsie, New York, about American manufacturing and investment. Speech also decried Republicans over various policy issues and what they might do if they win control of Congress.
Infrastructure law and CHIPS and Science acts were mentioned by name. Biden says Republicans seem to be arguing for fewer jobs and trickle-down economic policies, and that it's time for corporations to pay their fair share of taxes.
Following the speech, POTUS waded through the crowd chatting, shaking hands and taking photos. He was still shaking hands when press left the room at 1:52.
At 2:00 we are now rolling back to the airport.
From the WH:
Marty Weissburg, President, Mack Trucks and Chairman, Volvo Group North America
Emily Keller, Mayor of Hagerstown
Rep. David Trone (MD-06)
Samuel Leedy, Forklift Operator, Volvo Powertrain
The President
The ride back to the airport included another smattering of onlookers, some waving, many with phones. The immigrants sign was visible again, as was another: "Worst family ever: The Bidens. You all suck."
POTUS re-entered AF1 at 2:10 out of shouting distance of the press. We are heading to Philadelphia and then Wilmington. Will send more details as/if needed.
AF1 landed in Philadelphia at 3:14 following an uneventful flight. POTUS departed at 3:19. Press again shouted questions about his nuclear comments and he did not respond.
We are rolling to Wilmington as of 3:22. I do not expect anything else significant to happen, but if it does you will hear from me.
From the WH:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Unexpected detour: we are rolling through the University of Pennsylvania campus, a school to which Biden has strong ties.
Biden is stopping by the University Meeting and Guest House. Pool is holding on the bus.
From the WH:
This afternoon President Biden visited the University of Pennsylvania campus with his granddaughter Natalie Biden
Pool held on the bus outside the Class of 1920 Commons from 3:37 until 5:15, and did not glimpse POTUS but did see students, workers and police officers enjoying the October air, some lighting up fat cigars to enhance the experience.
Press left the bus and strolled across the historic Penn campus a little after 5 p.m., then got a glimpse of POTUS walking into the Penn Bookstore at 5:37.
Many onlookers noticed the commotion and hung around to see what was up. A couple yelled in the direction of POTUS, "Yo Joe! Legalize that weed!" Some crowded the bookstore windows after he entered.
Biden could be seen inside talking and taking selfies, waving once at the crowd outside. He exited again at 5:49 to cheers and entered the Beast.
Press ran back to the bus and the motorcade began rolling again at 5:51. The next stop, I think, is Delaware.
Motorcade rolled into Wilmington and pool did not glimpse POTUS before we peeled off. A lid was called at 6:28.
One final note from the University of Pennsylvania visit:
Penn President Elizabeth Magill
Professor Sophia Rosenfield, Professor of History
Emma Demonte, C'23: Student
Good night!