Yesterday, President Biden visited the IBM facility in Poughkeepsie, New York where the company announced a $20 billion investment over the next decade in R&D design and manufacturing of semiconductors, mainframe technology, artificial intelligence and quantum computing across the Hudson Valley.

This investment will create good-paying manufacturing jobs in the Hudson Valley, and was made possible thanks to the President's economic plan – including the CHIPS and Science Act.

Earlier in the week, Micron Technology Inc. announced a $100 billion investment to manufacture chips in upstate New York.

Under President Biden, our economy has created 10 million new jobs and nearly 700,000 manufacturing jobs — proving that under this Administration, "Made in America" is no longer just a slogan.



 "Where is it written that we can't lead manufacturing in the world?" Biden asked in remarks at the facility in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. "I don't know where that's written. That's one of the things that the CHIPS act is going to change, the law that's going to build a future and a proud, proud legacy not only for IBM, but for the country." He added: "The supply chain is going to start here and end here in the United States."

 IBM has promoted key elements of Biden's legislative agenda. Krishna attended the August chips bill signing ceremony and the company lobbied lawmakers to pass a bipartisan infrastructure bill that includes funding to build out broadband networks.

 President Joe Biden said Thursday that a $20 billion investment by IBM in New York's Hudson River Valley would help give the United States a technological edge against China, …The president cited IBM's commitment as part of a larger manufacturing boom, spurred by this summer's passage of a $280 billion measure intended to boost the semiconductor industry and scientific research.

 
 In a statement, Krishna said the legislation "will ensure a reliable and secure supply of next-generation chips for today's computers and artificial intelligence platforms as well as fuel the future of quantum computing by accelerating research, expanding the quantum supply chain, and providing more opportunities for researchers to explore business and science applications of quantum systems."





 










 




 Micron, one of the world's largest microchip manufacturers, announced Tuesday it would open a semiconductor plant in upstate New York, promising a long-term investment of up to $100 billion and a plant that could bring 50,000 jobs to the state. … The company was lured to the Syracuse area with help from a generous set of federal, state and local incentives, including up to $5.5 billion in state tax credits over 20 years.

 Micron's plan for the plant includes commitments to use 100% renewable electricity and to aim for zero landfill waste, among other green pledges. … Micron's chief executive, Sanjay Mehrotra, credited both the passage of the federal measure, called the CHIPS and Science Act, and the state Green CHIPS law for making the Clay project possible.

 The commitment by Micron is a sign that the federal government's prodding and package of generous incentives are helping to steer investment decisions. Legislation that passed in August, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, provides $52 billion in grants and subsidies for companies to build and expand computer chip factories in the country. "There is no doubt that without the CHIPS Act, we would not be here today," said Sanjay Mehrotra, chief executive of Micron.

 Taiwan's TSMC, the world's largest chipmaker, is building a $12 billion factory in Phoenix that it aims to finish late next year. SkyWater Technology is building a chip factory and research facility next to Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind., and Samsung and Texas Instruments have announced large chip-making construction projects in Texas. Most of the companies have said that the federal subsidy program induced them to invest.












