Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! I am your pooler today. It is a mostly sunny Thursday morning here in Washington -- which is welcome after a week of rain and gloom.
President Joe Biden is traveling today to New York and Philadelphia. He is scheduled to depart for JBA around 9:50 a.m.
NEC Director Brian Deese will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre for the gaggle aboard Air Force One.
A few corrections on the last pool report. The president is heading to New York and New Jersey (not Philadelphia) and is scheduled to depart for JBA at 10 a.m.!
President Biden walked out of the White House at 10:20 a.m. and walked over to the press and answered a series of questions.
On whether he will meet with Putin at G20: "That remains to be seen"
He said he's "disappointed" about the OPEC decision.
On whether regrets his trip to Saudi Arabia given the decision he said "no."
Will try to get more direct quotes.
Marine One was wheels up at 10:26 a.m.
Just to add on to the president's comments on OPEC decision, he said the administration is "looking at alternatives."
Additionally:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Here are more direct quotes from the president's answers to the press before boarding Marine One:
On reaction to OPEC decision: "We are looking at alternatives. We haven't made up our minds yet."
On whether he regretted trip to Saudi Arabia: "The trip was not essentially not about oil. The trip was about the Middle East and about Israel and rationalization of positions. But it is a disappointment and says that there are problems."
To clarify the quote on Saudi Arabia:
"The trip was
 The trip was about the Middle East and about Israel and rationalization of positions. But it is a disappointment and says that there are problems."
The gaggle with NEC Director Brian Deese and Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre AF1 will be around 11:15 a.m.
You can listen at: 
2 minutes until Air Force One gaggle.
Marine One was wheels down at 10:36 p.m.
President Biden stepped out of M1 and onto the south lawn at 10:38pm. He close his suit jacket, waved to the press and scurried into the White House. He did not answer to shouted questions from the press.
That's a lid! Have a great night folks.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
M1 landed at JBA at 10:36 am.
Biden got off M1 at 10:38 am. He chatted with his greeter for a bit. (Name below)
POTUS boarded AF1 at 10:40 am. He didn't stop for questions.
At 10:43 am, wheels up shortly for a full day in NY and NJ.
Colonel Carlos Alford, 89th Airlift Support Group Commander
AF1 landed at Stewart Air National Guard Base at 11:46 pm.
AF1 gaggle lasted for about 25 mins. Lots of q's on OPEC+ and the economy.
POTUS deplaned at 11:55 am. He hugged Gov. Hochul and held hands with her as they chatted on the tarmac. He shook hands, chatted and took off his sunglasses as he went down the row of greeters. (Names below)
The governor chimed in and started chatting with POTUS again as he got to the end of the row. It looked like POTUS was giving out challenger coins to some greeters, but it was hard to see. As the conversation continued, the greeters formed a semi circle around him. Chatting went on for about 8 mins before Biden got into the Beast at 12:03 pm.
Motorcade rolling to IBM- Poughkeepsie at 12:05 pm.
Motorcade arrived at IBM- Poughkeepsie, NY at 12:44 pm. Uneventful ride. We drove by groups of spectators taking photos and videos on their phones. One had a "I <3 Joe" sign, another was giving the middle finger.
(Entire pool had zero cell service/wifi at the IBM warehouse, so sorry for the delay in sending this. No major news.)
Biden arrived at the first stop of the tour at the IBM warehouse at 1:35 pm with the company's CEO Arvind Krishna. Biden walked by some IBM employees and asked how they were doing and thanked them.
He received a brief history of IBM as he walked over to an area where old IBM mainframes were set up to show how things have changed. He looked at the latest generation and the chips in the memory cards. He shook hands with some employees waiting for him in the area.
"More is going to change in the next 10 years than it has in the last 40," he said.
"Where in gods name is it written that we can't be the manufacturing hub of the world? There's a lot of reasons to be optimistic."
The IBM CEO praised the chips bill.
At one point, POTUS said, "There are some people who want to take away social security." It was unclear what that was in response to. Poolers guess is it was related to the CEO talking about secure transactions and info processed by mainframes.
Biden was in an area underneath signs that said "stretch wrap" and "pre stretch wrap". To the side was another sign that read "A Future Made in America."
Pool was moved to the second stop on the tour at 1:41 pm where a quantum computer was set up. Biden walked over to us at 1:43 pm. He shook hands with more employees, telling the first one "you look like you spend a lot of time in the gym."
One of them pointed to chips in the quantum computer and explained the advantages of it. "The impossible will become possible," the employee said, saying the chips act would help accelerate the technology.
Biden mentioned that it could be used in cancer research/radiation work.
Mr. Krishna then showed POTUS the back of the machine. Biden thanked him and have him a side hug. Pool ushered out of that area at 1:48 pm.
Joining him on the tour were:
Arvind Krishna, CEO IBM
NY Gov Hochul
Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney
Rep. Patrick Ryan
Next up: Remarks, which were live-streamed. Pool will not be sending full quotes.
Speaking program:
Arvind Krishna, IBM CEO
Abigail Wise, IBM Z Quality Engineer, who introduced POTUS.
POTUS came out on stage at 2:02 pm. He wrapped at 2:22 pm. He walked around the audience in the warehouse and shook hands and took photos with people but pool was ushered out.
Motorcade rolling to Hudson Valley Regional Airport at 2:37 pm.
Here's more info from the IBM tour/remarks that your pooler couldn't send previously because of lack of service. POTUS did a photo line before the tour and remarks.
Motorcade arrived at Hudson Valley Regional Airport at 2:47 pm.
POTUS boarded M1 immediately after getting out of the beast.
Pool boarding helicopters at 2:50 pm. Wheels up shortly.
M1 landed in Monmouth, NJ at 3:43 pm.
POTUS got out of M1 at 3:47 pm and made the very short walk to the car. He was in at 3:48 pm. Pool was too far to shout questions.
Motorcade rolling for the DNC event at 3:51 pm.
Motorcade arrived at the home of NJ Gov. Phil Murphy for a DNC fundraiser at 4:15 pm.
Pool entered the foyer of Gov. Murphy's mansion at 4:32 pm. Pool listened to the remarks in the family room from here.
The governor and his wife opened with quick remarks. Donors were seated on plush couches around the family room.
POTUS began speaking at 4:34 pm. He spoke for roughly 30 mins. He jumped around to different topics. No news.
Please check quotes against transcript.
"There's an election coming up," Biden said with a laugh.
"There really is a lot at stake… based on statistics Democrats are running uphill," he said
"But so far it looks like the Senate we are not only going to hold but maybe pick up a couple of seats"
He said gerrymandering is going to make the House tougher. Mentioned recent surprises in special elections. "So there's a lot going on and a lot at stake."
"There's an overwhelming concern about democracy," he said of what the polls are showing before criticizing MAGA Republicans.
"It's a different time," he said.
Then moved on to the Dobbs decision and inflation. "My dad used to say everyone is entitled to a little bit of breathing room… and we're trying very hard to give them a little bit of breathing room."
Brought up lowering prescription drug prices as an example of giving people breathing room.
Biden then touted the passage of the gun bill, saying there was more left to do.
Next issue was climate change. He said he's spent a lot of time visiting states affected by natural disasters. "I just got back from Fort Myers…it's a literal disaster."
"There's no denying anymore that there is something fundamental that is changing."
Biden then talked about voting rights briefly and went back to gun violence, talking about kids being "scared to death" to go back to school.
He brought up problems with democracy around the world.
"You see what's happening in Hungary, which happens to be a NATO member… the point is there's a lot we can do about it."
Biden said there's a lot he's been able to get passed even though his agenda was considered dead on arrival.
Touted passage of ARP and infrastructure laws and jobs created under his administration. Said he had a reputation for being bipartisan as a senator, "but a lot of it has changed."
Then moved to CHIPS act. Reiterated some of his remarks from this morning. "There's a lot to be positive about."
"I'm trying to figure out how I can shorten all of this for you all," Biden said to laughs, as he went back to the Inflation Reduction Act to talk about the climate provisions.
Went back to Dobbs. "It's not just going to be abortion. It's going to be contraception….they are heading that way in some states right now."
"If you look at the record, we've made some genuine progress," Biden said.
Donors laughed when he said his dads saying of not being compared to the almighty but the alternative.
Biden then criticized Sen. Rick Scott's proposal. "These are basic, fundamental programs that have overwhelming support from the American public."
" I promise you if we maintain control we're going to eliminate assault weapons again…," he went on to talk about the importance of an educated workforce.
To wrap up, Biden again explained why he first ran for president. "There's a lot more but I've probably already said too much."
Pool ushered out as POTUS began taking questions at 5:04 pm.
Towards the end of his remarks, Biden left the lectern and walked around the room with a mic.
At the the governors sprawling water front property, pool spotted a basketball/tennis court, infinity pool, a kids soccer field and shuffleboard court. The mansion and pool house have a Spanish-style architecture with water fountain by a circular driveway.
In the family room, Murphy had photos of him with Bill Clinton, Obama and Angela Merkel.
Motorcade rolling for airport at 5:53 pm.
FYI POTUS and Gov. Murphy did a photo line before the remarks.
Also some in the pool spotted Bon Jovi among the donors.
More on how much event raised —
On Thursday, President Biden will hold a fundraising event in Red Bank, New Jersey, which will have approximately 15 attendees, and raise $1 million for the Democratic National Committee and the Democratic Grassroots Victory Fund.
Motorcade arrived at the airport at 6:16 pm. POTUS boarded M1 at 6:17 pm.
We drove past lots of people taking photos with their kids, some waving American flags. One couple had a big "DeSantis 2024" sign pinned to the tree in their front yard.
Pool boarded helicopter at 6:20. Wheels up soon.
M1 landed at the Wall Street Landing Zone at 6:44 pm. Pool did not see POTUS get out.
Motorcade rolling at 6:51 pm.
(Pool has been served pizza with penne pasta as the topping for the ride)
[
]
Motorcade arrived at the DSCC fundraiser at 7:07 pm. After holding for a few minutes, pool was led in to the residence through the basement and greeted by a very friendly dog named Stella. We are holding in the stairwell.
A quick disclosure from your pooler: The event is taking place at the home of investor James Murdoch. He is a son of Rupert Murdoch, executive chairman of News Corp., owner of The Wall Street Journal.
(Previous report should have been #14 — sorry!)
POTUS started speaking at 7:33 pm. He spoke for about 22 mins. Remarks were similar to previous fundraiser but spoke a lot more about foreign policy and he did bring up Putin. Those Putin quotes in bold below. Please check against transcript. (Thanks to AFP's Aurelia End for help)
Biden opened with "This is not your father's Republican Party."
"There's an assault on all these institutions," named the Supreme Court, White House.
Spoke of the challenges with governing with an evenly divided Senate.
"I feel pretty good where we are as it relates to the senate but it's premature…" he said
Repeated the line from previous fundraiser that House was a different story because of gerrymandering.
Moved on to Dobbs, "a lot of things are in play," bringing up contraception. Then moved to climate change. "The Colorado River is a bit of a canal now."
Touted passage of IRA, spoke of the insulin provision. Criticized Sens. Rick Scott and Ron Johnson again.
"So there's a lot at stake."
He said a lot was at stake in foreign policy too. Said he would continue to support Ukraine, spoke of the nuclear threat.
"
He said he's spent a lot of time trying to hold NATO together. "There's a lot of changes going on."
Spoke of the CHIPS Act and his visit to IBM this morning.
Went back to Putin:
"
" I 
"I didn't realize how much serious damage the previous administration did to our foreign policy. "
Pool listened to the remarks from a staircase next to the room where the event was taking place and could not see much. Looked like there were large art pieces on every wall around the room. We were ushered out at 7:53 as Sen. Peters took the mic.
We came in as James Murdoch was introducing the president. There was a lectern set up but the President moved to the middle of the room.
Motorcade rolling to the landing strip at 8:37 pm.
Cleaned up a couple of quotes I previously sent (small tweaks):
"First time since the Cuban missile crisis, we have a direct threat of the use nuclear weapon if in fact things continue down the path they are going."
"I'm trying to figure out what is Putin's off ramp?… Where does he find a way out? Where does he find himself in a position that he does not not only lose face but lose significant power within Russia?"
From the WH — Participating in a photo line with the President at a reception for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee:
Motorcade arrived at the landing zone at 8:53 pm.
POTUS boarded M1 at 8:56 pm.
Pool boarded helicopter right after.
Wheels up in a minute.
(Also, a reminder that we were by the stairs next to the room Biden was speaking in at the fundraiser, so audio wasn't amazing for those Putin quotes)
M1 landed at JFK at 9:16 pm.
POTUS walked out at 9:18 pm. He boarded AF1 at 9:19 pm. Waved and saluted at the top. Didn't stop to talk.
Wheels up for JBA shortly.
AF1 landed at JBA at 10:09 pm.
Biden deplaned at 10:19 pm. He was greeted by Colonel Carlos Alford, 89th Airlift Support Group Commander.
He boarded M1 at 10:20 pm.
Wheels up at 10:25 pm.
That's all for today! Have a good night.