Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House on a glorious fall day, where our thoughts are with those struggling to recover from Ian, and those still in its path. The now tropical storm is also on President Biden's mind/schedule.
Call time is at 11:00 for an 11:35 departure to FEMA HQ for an Ian briefing, the first of two scheduled off-campus movements, followed by a 6:40 family photo on the North Portico with leaders from the U.S. - Pacific Island Country Summit. Between, Biden will visit the state department as part of the summit.
Given the busy news cycle, there has been a request for a briefing, but there are no updates, yet, to the schedule below.
h
And yes (you know who you are), I'll ask for a wine and dinner menu for tonight's event.
POTUS walked from Oval to Beast at 12:05. We are rolling at 12:07.
POTUS arrived at FEMA HQ at 12:13
Pool did not see building entrance.
Remarks will be carried live on:
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Headquarters, per a WH official
Greeting the President upon arrival at Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Headquarters, per White House.
Participating in the President's briefing on the impact of Hurricane Ian and the ongoing federal government response efforts, per WH
Which is now down to like 90 seconds.
President announced at end of his remarks and upon questioning from TV pooler Elyse Perlmutter-Gumbeiner said it was his "intention" to visit PR as well. He will meet with DeSantis if the governor is available.
Check precise comments against tape.
"We may," he answered, when asked by a celebrated wire reporter about the need for Congress to provide additional funding, as Biden was walking away from lectern.
He did not answer if he held Russia responsible for the Nordstream pipeline rupture in the Baltic, insisting that it was off topic.
In answer to another question, he said politics would not play a part in his interactions with DeSantis.
Returned to WH at 1:34. From staging, it appears he entered the residence.
[
]
Arrived at 3:04. Pool did not see POTUS exit car or enter building.
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route Department of State, per WH.
Per the WH:
The President is hosting the first ever U.S.- Pacific Island Country Summit to demonstrate the United States' deep and enduring partnership with the Pacific Island region. The Summit reflects our broadening and deepening cooperation on key issues such as climate change, pandemic and economic recovery, maritime security, environmental protection, and advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific.
Participating in the Pacific Island Country Summit with the President:
We plodded down C street and then snaked up the WH, up West Executive and arrived at the North lawn driveway at 5:14. Caught a glimpse of POTUS walking into residence.
[
]
President Biden did, however, engage on tonight's repast. Answering a question on what was on the menu, Biden joked that he "worked all day on it."
You had the opportunity to watch the scene live, but if not, I'll try and paint it. POTUS emerged from the North Portico doors slightly after 6:41 and took his place just atop the steps, standing center on a red carpet, with his fellow leaders spread out to the left and right. Fourteen flags, from the represented Pacific Island nations, were arrayed behind the group. Fading evening light, with plenty of artificial tungsten hitting them as well. Easy shot for the stills.
The president clearly heard the shouted questions -- "Can you now say Putin was behind the damage to the Nord Stream pipeline?" .... "What consequences will Russia face?" -- turned his back and walked into the residence.
And we have a travel photo lid. I bid you a good evening.
Participating in the Family Photo with the President, from WH official:
The President is hosting a dinner for the Pacific Island leaders in the State Dining Room.
Grilled Little Gem Lettuce
Shaved Tarentaise Cheese
Herbed Sourdough Crisps
Barolo-braised Beef Short Ribs
Red Onion Confit
Pommes Souffle - Sunchokes
Haricots Verts
Golden Delicious Apple Breton Cake
Honey Cinnamon Ice Cream
Autumn Leaf Tuile
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good afternoon, I am Scott Stewart with the Japanese newspaper Sankei Shimbun and am serving as your Foreign Press Group pooler today.
For the benefit of those who will be covering the President's participation in the U.S.-Pacific Islands Summit this afternoon, I am attaching photos of several of the Pacific Island leaders who may be in attendance. Unfortunately, a confirmed list was not available from the NSC or State Department. As reported by my colleague yesterday, the leaders of Republic of Nauru and Vanuatu have sent representatives in their stead. Nauru just elected a new president yesterday, Russ Kun.
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route Department of State:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
From the White House:
The President is hosting the first ever U.S.- Pacific Island Country Summit to demonstrate the United States' deep and enduring partnership with the Pacific Island region. The Summit reflects our broadening and deepening cooperation on key issues such as climate change, pandemic and economic recovery, maritime security, environmental protection, and advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific.
Participating in the Pacific Island Country Summit with the President:
H.E. Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Fiji
T.H. Manasseh Sogavare, Prime Minister of the Solomon Islands
H.E. David W. Panuelo, President of the Federated States of Micronesia
T.H. James Marape, MP, Prime Minster of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea
T.H. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of Tuvalu
H.E. David Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
H.E. Surangel S. Whipps, Jr., President of the Republic of Palau
T.H. Fiame Naomi Mata'afe, Prime Minister of the Independent State of Samoa
T.H. Siaosi Sovaleni, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Tonga
H.E. Édouard Fritch, President of French Polynesia
H.E. Louis Mapou, President of New Caledonia
T.H. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of The Cook Islands
H.E. Odo Tevi, Ambassador of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United States
Ms. Josie-Ann Dongobir, Charge d'Affairs/First Secretary to the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Nauru
The President emerged from the North Entrance at 6:40 PM, followed by the 12 Pacific Island heads of government and heads of state, who stood in a line with President Biden in the center, in front of the flags of the 14 nations participating in the summit. The representatives of Nauru and Vanuatu were not present for the "family photo". Samoan Prime Minister Fiame Naomi Mata'afa was wheeled out in a wheelchair, but then stood for the photo.
The President did not answer shouted questions regarding Russia's involvement with the leaks in the Nordstream 2 pipeline and consequences for Russia.
After approximately one minute, the President then lead the guests back into the executive mansion for their dinner.
The White House announced a lid at 6:50 PM and then provided the names of the leaders participating in the "family photo" and the menu for the dinner that we were not allowed to taste for journalistic purposes,
Enjoy the rest of your evening.
Participating in the Family Photo with the President:
The President is hosting a dinner for the Pacific Island leaders in the State Dining Room.
Grilled Little Gem Lettuce
Shaved Tarentaise Cheese
Herbed Sourdough Crisps
Barolo-braised Beef Short Ribs
Red Onion Confit
Pommes Souffle - Sunchokes
Haricots Verts
Golden Delicious Apple Breton Cake
Honey Cinnamon Ice Cream
Autumn Leaf Tuile