Pool Reports by 
, 
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre for the gaggle on Air Force One.
The time for the gaggle isn't firm yet but likely will be about halfway into the 3.5 hour flight. Will update as info becomes available.
The president and first lady are scheduled to depart the White House at 10:10am, heading to JBA, arriving in Puerto Rico at 2pm.
POTUS boarded Marine One at 10:10am without taking questions. He stopped briefly to say that he is going to Puerto Rico because they haven't been taken care of very well.
Full quotes tk.
It began to drizzle as the press gathered for South Lawn departure and the rain began to pick up as we awaited POTUS.
Biden to pool before boarding Marine One: I'm heading to Puerto Rico because they haven't been taken very good care of."
There's a but more to it that was even harder to hear.
Wheels up a 10:15a for JBA.
Biden's full comment to pool on departure from South Lawn:
"I'm heading to Puerto Rico because they haven't been taken very good care of. They've been trying like hell to catch up from the last hurricane. I want to see the state of affairs today and make sure we push everything we can."
He then turned and headed to Marine One as an assortment of questions were shouted.
KJP gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Puerto Rico began about 2 minutes ago.
Audio is streaming at 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 9:04 pm, by which time the light rain the pool was enjoying had subsided to a drizzle.
The president stepped off Marine One at 9:06 pm in the same blazer and tan slacks he wore on departure. The first lady wore what looked like sneakers. They held hands as they walked into the White House, and seemed to be gingerly choosing steps to avoid mud or puddles.
The president did not stop or acknowledge shouted questions, on the Brazil election, North Korea and other topics not audible over the whine of the chopper.
The Bidens were inside at 9:07.
Lid declared at 9:12 pm.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from JBA, where POTUS and FLOTUS are traveling to Ponce, Puerto Rico, and the pool is awaiting their departure.
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre for the gaggle on Air Force One, which will be streamed live via the White House's usual channels.
Copying below as a remainder today's events and schedule:
In the afternoon, the President will receive a briefing on Hurricane Fiona. This briefing will have an out-of-town pool spray at the top.
Then, the President will deliver remarks about the Administration's commitment to the people of Puerto Rico and to helping rebuild more secure and resilient infrastructure. These remarks will be open press.
During the visit, the President will announce more than $60 million in funding through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to shore up levees, strengthen flood walls, and create a new flood warning system to help Puerto Rico become better prepared for future storms.
The President and the First Lady also will visit Centro Sor Isolina Ferré Aguayo School to meet with families and community leaders impacted by Hurricane Fiona, participate in a community service project, and thank the Federal and local officials working around the clock to help the people of Puerto Rico recover and rebuild. This visit will be covered by the out-of-town pool.
Later, the President and the First Lady will depart Ponce, Puerto Rico en route the White House.
Additional information on the Biden-Harris Administration's ongoing response to Hurricane Fiona can be found here: 
.
At 10:24 a.m., POTUS and FLOTUS touched down. Biden, in blue blazer and open collar, motioned to the pool but did not stop. They boarded at 10:30 a.m.
It is overcast, blustery and 47 degrees here at Andrews. The high in Ponce, Puerto Rico, is 87 degrees. We are on the small plane and will be wheels up momentarily.
From the White House:
AF1 touched down at Mercedita International Airport in Ponce, Puerto Rico, just after 2 p.m. local time after a smooth flight.
The press secretary and FEMA administrator gaggled for nearly 30 minutes, touching on the administration's commitment to Puerto Rico's recovery, with the press secretary also fielding questions on Biden's Florida trip on Wednesday, the elections in Brazil and the new UK prime minister's tax plan, among others.
POTUS deplaned at 2:10 p.m.
We're rolling about 15 minutes to the first stop.
The motorcade arrived at the Port of Ponce about 2:30 p.m.
The pool did not see POTUS arrive, and is waiting for a spray at the top of his briefing here before he goes to give remarks on the same grounds.
POTUS emerged around 2:40 p.m. in front of two small shipping containers at a lot on the grounds of the port. Two large printouts — maps of the island — were laid out in front of the group. The pool could not make out much of the briefing POTUS received, but they were talking about the recovery stage Puerto Rico is in and there was a request for POTUS to issue some kind of unspecified extension for relief. There also was talk of the grid and the amount of rain, though, again, it was very hard to hear.
Participating in the President's briefing on the impact of Hurricane Fiona and the ongoing federal government response efforts:
The cell reception here also is poor, and it is a steamy 85 degrees on the water. Many of the onlookers who have been waiting to hear from the president are dripping with sweat.
The president's remarks are starting soon and are being live-streamed.
From the White House: The President is delivering remarks about the Administration's commitment to the people of Puerto Rico and to helping rebuild more secure and resilient infrastructure.
Puerto Rico Gov. Pedro Pierluisi opened the program. He told the assembled guests at the Port of Ponce that he's asked President Joe Biden to extend a major disaster declaration for 180 more days to pay for 100% of debris removal, etc. The governor said Biden's visit was not an isolated incident and that it was another example of his administration's commitment to the people of Puerto Rico. He said he wanted the people here to be treated the same way as all Americans; and again thanked Biden for his help and attention.
Biden, in a blue oxford shirt with open collar and khakis, took the stage and joked that he doesn't want the headline to read "Biden brings storm to Puerto Rico," as large, dark clouds hovered over him. Biden said he's long felt an intense kinship with the people here, noting his many visits and the fact that he's from a small and diverse state. Biden said, in a sense, he was raised politically in the Puerto Rican community. "I was sort of raised in the Puerto Rican community at home politically," he said.
Most of his remakes focused on what the administration is doing to help with the recovery.
"We're going to make sure you get every single dollar promised," Biden said, adding that he approved the first set of relief funding before the recent storm hit.
Biden talked about the various other aid, and said many of the FEMA staff on the ground are Puerto Ricans who are helping their neighbors while also caring for their own families. He spoke rapidly, as the clouds hung closer and thunder rolled while lightening struck far in the background. Biden said he is not leaving until the work here — "every single thing" — is done.
He wrapped at 3:30 p.m.
We're rolling to the next stop in a few minutes.
See latest report below two housekeeping notes from the White House
Participated in a photo line with the President and the First Lady at the Port of Ponce:
The motorcade drove through Ponce, spotting signs displaying some anti-American hostility — "Biden Go Home," one read. There also were some supporters and others with various signs stating that financial aid was "stolen" from the people here after Maria and they worried it would happen again.
The motorcade stopped at 3:50 p.m. and the pool walked about a block to an indoor basketball court inside a school where groceries and household goods — 10 pound sacks of yellow onions, cuties, garlic, boxed juice, rice, nuts, ground corn, chickpeas, and cases of bottled water — were gathered in white plastic shopping bags and arrayed atop long tables covered in red and blue tablecloths. At least 50 people loaded bags or stood around the room.
At 4 p.m., FLOTUS, in a floral dress, entered the gym and started bagging. She chatted with the First Lady of Puerto Rico, dropped off more goods into more bags.
She's posing for many pictures and still helping out. The pool is waiting for POTUS to enter.
Thunder cracked as the pool milled about the school gym waiting for POTUS. White House staff told us President Joe Biden spent several minutes in the pull-aside with families and other leaders impacted by Fiona (see prior pool note for the list of names).
First lady Jill Biden continued to pose for pictures and fill large white plastic bags with goods. A large Puerto Rican flag hung on one wall and a sign for the Hispanic Federation hung beside it. It is exceptionally hot — like being inside a steam room, and one woman is weaving around the room passing out water. The upper walls of the gym are metal mesh, and one small air conditioning unit doesn't appear to be working. Many of the people who were staffing the event have retired to the bleachers to wait for Biden.
At 4:38 p.m., Biden entered to cheers. He posed to a group photo and then stopped and chatted. He left the room less than two minutes later (he did not load groceries). We are headed back to the vans.
The motorcade loaded into the vans and was on the move back to the airport at 4:48 p.m.
The motorcade arrived at Mercedita International Airport in Ponce about 5:10 p.m.
The pool did not see POTUS board. We are wheels up soon.
AF1 touched down at 8:36 p.m. POTUS walked down the steps about 8:47 p.m. He and the first lady walked straight to M1 and boarded.
Handing off to local pool.