Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. The White House press office passes along the below statement:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at today's press briefing.
Pool is gathering for President Biden's trip to the Supreme Court.
The president walked out of the White House and into his car at 9:54 a.m.
The motorcade departed the White House South Lawn at 9:55 a.m. for the Supreme Court. The president is attending an investiture ceremony for Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
Pool was already in the vans when president entered his car, so no questions. There were a few staff members, including the White House counsel, standing outside the South Lawn portico when pool walked by to enter the vans.
As a heads up, pooler will not be able to provide quick reports once we get to the Supreme Court. Only pens and notebooks are allowed inside. No electronics. Your pooler will take detailed notes and send them once we leave the court.
It is a cloudy and chilly day.
From the White House press office, here is list of people traveling to the Supreme Court with the president:
The motorcade departed the Supreme Court at 10:34 a.m. It arrived at the White House at 10:40. Pooler saw POTUS exit his car and walk toward the Oval Office at 10:41 a.m.
Initial notes on SCOTUS visit:
After departing the White House, the motorcade drove down Pennsylvania Ave. Motorcade passed Labor Department and Canadian Embassy.
Motorcade arrived at 10 a.m. Pooler did not see the president exit his car. Pool entered the building from a different entrance than the one facing the Capitol.
Pool was seated in the court behind a few walls and curtains. It was difficult to see. Room was full of people, some masked and some not.
Pooler, with help from other reporters in pool, spotted Paul Ryan, Merrick Garland, Vanita Gupta, and Lisa Monaco in room.
A bell rang at 10:17 a.m. Chief Justice John Roberts announced the arrival of the justices. He said he was "pleased" to have the president, vice president, and Speaker Pelosi at the ceremony. He also recognized retired Justices Kennedy and Breyer and said "welcome back."
More notes to come.
Chief Justice John Roberts then recognized Attorney General Garland. Garland said he had the commission, signed by both him and President Biden. The clerk read the commission aloud.
Justice Brown Jackson was then escorted to the bench and shook the chief justice's hand. The other justices stood. The chief justice administered an oath. There was no applause after the oath.
The chief justice said: "It is my pleasure to extend you a very warm welcome."
The chief justice then said the court is adjourned until this coming Monday at 10 a.m.
The pool held in the court room for a few moments while the president and vice president left. Pool was then escorted out and loaded into vans.
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the Supreme Court of the United States:
Joining the President and the First Lady for the guest book signing:
Joining the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and Second Gentleman for a greet in the Chief Justice's Conference Room:
The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman attended the Investiture of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
The next event of the day is President Biden's remarks in the Roosevelt Room on the federal response to Hurricane Ian.
The TV pool was called to gather for preset at 10:47 a.m. Will alert when rest of pool is called to gather.
Pool is gathering for president's speech on Hurricane Ian as of 11:25 a.m.
Change of plans. President Biden will attend Rosh Hashanah event first and then speak on Hurricane Ian. Unclear if we are going to one right after the other, will update when pool knows more.
Pool is in the Roosevelt Room. Lots of people standing around. There are two screens that say Shana Tova. Pooler spotted Admiral Rachel Levine of the Department of Health and Human Services. Also Rep. Ted Deutch.
Pool and attendees are waiting for the president. Unfortunately pooler doesn't spot any delicious food that typically is served for Rosh Hashanah, will advise if that changes.
President Biden, First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff walked into the East Room at 12:06 p.m.
From the White House press office (pooler hasn't confirmed everyone on this list are in the room):
The president invited the attendees to join him for a special performance by a violinist (pooler couldn't hear name). He then wrapped up his remarks at 12:27 p.m. A journalist shouted a question about Ukraine, the president said he would talk about it later. The president left the East Room.
Press office says pool will gather for hurricane remarks at 1:15 p.m.
The violinist is Itzhak Perlman
Pool is gathering for president's remarks on Hurricane Ian as of 1:19 p.m.
Two-minute warning to Biden's Hurricane remarks called at 1:42 p.m.
You saw it live.
President Biden took no questions from journalists at the end of his speech on Hurricane Ian. The speech also included a statement on Vladimir Putin of Russia. He left the Roosevelt Room at 1:58 p.m.
Next event of the day is Karine Jean-Pierre's press briefing. It is scheduled for 2:45 p.m., no word on if it will be delayed.
Also passing along below message from White House press office:
On a call with more than 1,200 Rabbis and clergy members from across the nation, President Biden commemorated the Jewish High Holidays and reaffirmed his longstanding commitment to, and leadership on, issues of importance to the American Jewish community. He expressed his deep gratitude to the Rabbis and clergy members for their leadership and service.
Press briefing pushed to 3 p.m.
Two-minute warning to Karine's briefing called at 2:58 p.m.
After the briefing wrapped, the press pool quickly gathered and is now in the East Room for the president's celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month. The room is arranged the same way as this morning's High Holidays event with a change in the signage on the screens.
President Biden entered the East Room at 4:09 p.m.
Notes to come. Event is being streamed live on White House website.
See below from the White House press office for guest list at Hispanic Heritage Month event.
Biden's speech at the Hispanic Heritage Month celebration ended at 4:26 p.m. Pooler couldn't see him exit the East Room.
Lid called at 4:59 p.m.
Have a great weekend.