Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is 
 in American Rescue Plan funds to train over 13,000 Community Health Workers (CHWs). In response to the acute need to expand the health care workforce and address pandemic-related burnout, the American Rescue Plan provided historic investments. Among these investments, President Biden’s American Rescue Plan provided a total of over $1.1 billion for community health, outreach, and health education workers—the largest ever one-time investment in the nation’s community health workforce. These investments are expected to deploy over 40,000 people in community health, outreach, and health education roles over the coming years. This investment will build on the roughly 50,000 CHWs who were already working in American communities before the pandemic.
CHWs are an 
, 
 public health workforce to improve population health and strengthen health systems. 
 CHWs, as well as outreach and health education workers, serve as trusted messengers and advocates helping to facilitate communication between individuals and health care providers. They also play a key role in addressing pre-existing health inequities that were exacerbated by the pandemic.
President Biden understands the importance of investing in a modern public health workforce, and his Administration continues to deliver on his campaign promise to expand the community health workforce. Although there is more work to do to secure and build upon this progress, the American Rescue Plan strengthened our public health system during the pandemic and is building capacity for the future.
Today’s announcement builds on other critical American Rescue Plan investments in our community health workforce, including:
 These investments are helping respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, address long-standing inequities, and build capacity for the future. These investments include:
The U.S. is experiencing a severe shortage of health care professionals, especially in rural and underserved communities. In 2019, the United States had nearly 
 to meet the country’s health care need; that gap could grow as high as 
. Each year through 2031, on average there will be 
 for registered nurses. Rural regions are particularly impacted by shortages: 
. These shortages have been exacerbated by recruitment challenges and provider burnout during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The American public health system has been woefully underfunded; COVID-19 exposed these inadequacies nationwide. By some estimates, state and local public health departments needed to increase their pre-pandemic workforce by 80% to provide a minimum set of public health services.
Americans are experiencing an unprecedented mental health and substance use crisis, with demand for services far greater than the capacity of the workforce to provide services.