Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House. Pool was called early for a 4:55 In-Town travel pool gather and is endeavoring to find out what's been added to POTUS's schedule. The only thing on today's schedule is POTUS and VPOTUS remarks at 9 p.m. at the CBC 2022 Phoenix Awards Dinner in DC.
Pool is gathering for a South Grounds motorcade. Still no word on destination.
Pool is rolling at 5:19 pm. POTUS was not sighted.
White House says POTUS is attending church to us evening. Pool is headed west in DC.
Motorcade arrived at Holy Trinity Catholic Church at 5:28 pm after uneventful motorcade. POTUS was already inside.
POTUS left church about 6:23 pm. He did not answer shouted question about Venezuela deal. Motorcade was rolling at 6:26 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 6:36 pm.
There's a dinner lid until 7:15 p.m.
Motorcade departs the White House at 7:55 pm for the Congressional Black Caucus Phoenix Awards dinner at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center.
Motorcade arrived at the convention center at 8 pm.
More from the White House on tonight's Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Phoenix Awards Dinner.
Participating in a photo line with the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman:
VPOTUS walked on stage at 9 pm to loud cheers from attendees at the CBCF awards dinner to deliver remarks before POTUS.
VPOTUS said she reiterated POTUS's recent comments that the administration will stand behind the people of Puerto Rico, Florida and South Carolina affected by Hurricane Ian. She noted the first time she attended the CBCF dinner she was a student at Howard University. VPOTUS touted the administration's $5.8 billion investment in historically black colleges and universities and noted the recent investiture of Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson but said we have more to do, citing threats against abortion rights and voting rights. Then she introduced the president at 9:08 p.m.
[
]
POTUS walked on stage in a black tuxedo at 9:08 p.m. He began by stating "our hearts are heavy" over Hurricane Ian's devastation and his administration will "do whatever it takes."
He drew loud applause when he stated "Without the CBC, I wouldn't be standing here tonight." Then he, like VPOTUS, touted his appointment of Ketanji Brown Jackson, drawing more loud applause.
"I told you all I was going to appoint a balck woman to the Supreme Court, and we did," POTUS said before acknowledging VPOTUS as the first Black woman vice president.
First, the last pool report on POTUS remarks should have been #15.
POTUS touted investments in HBCUs, the infrastructure law, and the Inflation Reduction Act and student debt forgiveness. He noted the deficit reduction the past two years and said, "I'm so sick of Republicans saying we're the big spenders. Give me a break."
He talked about the mass shooting in Buffalo and declared, "Hate will not prevail in America. White supremacy will not have the last word."
He then vowed "I am not going to stop" until he gets an assault weapons ban.
POTUS wrapped up by noting he made Juneteenth a federal holiday and pushed for Congress to pass the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act and voting rights legislation. He ended at 9:28, saying
"You've had my back and I promise I will have yours."
Motorcade departed the convention center at 9:35 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 9:40 pm
The White House called a lid at 9:47 p.m. Good night.