Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool entered a room at the chief mission residence, where the VP was seated at a table with Japanese executives, at 10:17 am.
Rahm Emanuel kicked off the discussion immediately after pool walked in.
VP spoke of the economic partnership between the US and Japan, the disruptions to supply chain caused by the pandemic and explained the provisions within the CHIPS Act.
Pool arrived here separately from VP, walked here (it's a block away from the RON).
Pool left the room at 10:23 am. We will be holding for a about an before heading to her next event at the naval base. Pool will be driving there and getting ahead of VP, who will be taking a helicopter.
The CHIPS event was live-streamed so won't be sending quotes.
Today, Vice President will convene a group of Japanese business executives from companies in the semiconductor industry for a discussion on the CHIPS and Science Act that the President signed into law.
There will be 3 key topics: (1) investments in manufacturing in the United States (2) supply chain resilience, and the importance of diversification to protect from disruptions and (3) research and development, and how we will take the strong-history of collaboration to the next level with this new law.
The Vice President will outline how we are making a down payment on leadership in semiconductors and how she sees Japan playing a critical role in that.
The Vice President held a similar roundtable with business executives in Singapore -- on supply chain resiliency, and on collaboration between business and governments. This continues to be an area of focus for the Vice President, both domestically and internationally. The conversation will be moderated by Ambassador Rahm Emanuel.
Tokyo Electron
The VP landed at Yokosuka Naval Base via helicopter at 2 pm.
She got off the helicopter at 2:03 pm and was greeted by two people (names and titles below). She stopped to talk to them for 3 mins before getting in her car. Motorcade rolling to USS Howard at 2:10 pm.
Pool drove ahead to the base. On our drive in through the base, there were 3-4 women dressed in the VP's sorority colors waiting at a corner.
Motorcade arrived at the ship at 2:17 pm. VP got out of her car shortly after and was greeted by sailors lined up. She boarded the ship as a naval band played.
Several people were lined up on lawns and sidewalks throughout our drive through the base. Many waved, several had flags, a child bowed.
She began her tour of the USS Howard, guided by Commander Travis Montplaisir, Commander Officer, USS Howard.
She arrived at the Combat Command Center at 2:29 pm. She chatted with a sailor before her briefing on the command center. Harris nodded and looked around, as the commander briefed and showed her a simulation.
Harris asked how long it's been since they were out at sea among other q's about how the center is staffed. Pool was moved to next stop at 2:37, as VP's briefing continued.
At her last tour stop, on the flight deck, she saw the naval launch systems. Pool couldn't hear her conversation with the commander. They had their backs to the pool for a while.
She then met with some sailors. She shook hands with them and handed each of them a challenge coin. Pool was moved at 3 pm.
At 3:05 pm, we are waiting for VP's remarks, which will be live-streamed. Won't be sending full quotes.
VP came out to the podium at 3:16 pm. The sailors cheered as she walked out.
She began her remarks at 3:17 pm. They were live streamed. Wrapped at 3:26 pm.
VP got off the ship at 3:46 pm as the navy band played again. She and the sailors saluted as she walked down a red carpet.
She is expected to gaggle soon.
VP Harris took 3 questions from reporters — no major news. Q's were on explaining deepening unofficial ties with Taiwan and what that meant in her speech, how concerned the leaders she met with were about the threats in the region and Biden's recent comments on Taiwan and one on Russia's draft.
Otter here
Press vans moving at 3:56 pm. VP taking motorcade back.