Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House. I'll be your print pooler for today's FLOTUS event. Pool is gathering by the briefing room ahead of the First Lady's 2pm event in the EOB.
Passing along the following:
Today, First Lady Jill Biden, Secretary Marty Walsh, and Secretary Gina Raimondo will speak at an event launching the 
, a national network of more than 200 employers and industry organizations, labor organizations, educators, workforce intermediaries, and community-based organizations who are committed to strengthening and diversifying Registered Apprenticeship.
Fact Sheet: 
The Apprenticeship Ambassadors have existing Registered Apprenticeship programs in over 40 in-demand industries and have committed to expand and diversify these programs over the next year by collectively accomplishing the following:
 Following remarks from the First Lady, Secretary Walsh, and Secretary Raimondo, there will be a panel discussion with members of the initiative. The panel will be led by Brent Parton, Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training Administration at the Department of Labor, and will include Carla Grant Pickens of IBM, Darren Hawkins of Yellow Corporation, Brent Booker of NABTU, Portia Roberson of Focus: HOPE, Julian Alvarez of the Texas Workforce Commission, and Dr. Mary Thornley of Trident Technical College.

FLOTUS entered the Indian Treaty Room at 1.58pm
Secretary Walsh and Secretary Raimondo opened with remarks on apprenticeships. "I saw how powerful earn while you learn is," Secretary Raimondo said.
Secretary Raimondo handed over to FLOTUS saying she was "inspired" by her ability to juggle her First Lady role alongside her teaching job. And "in high-heeled purple shoes", she joked.
FLOTUS, wearing a white and light blue dress, said she spent her covid recovery time reading articles and thinking about how to inspire her students.
Her remarks focused on how "apprenticeships can change lives". Her full remarks will be shared by the East Wing.
FLOTUS and Secretary Raimondo left the Indian Treaty Room around 2.10pm.
Secretary Walsh delivered further remarks. Pool was ushered out at 2.20pm.