Pool Reports by 
, 
AF2 touched down in Buffalo, NY at 11:31am. VP deplaned at 12:05pm, after an extended holding pattern on the tarmac - have been promised more details on that delay soon.
Greeters upon arrival at the airport, per VP's office:
- Mayor Byron Brown (D-Buffalo, NY)
- County Executive Mark Poloncarz (D-Erie County, NY)
VP is now touring the State Univ of New York at Buffalo's clean energy center.
Details on the tour from a White House official on background:
Clean Energy and Sustainability Walking Tour

Participants
o Vice President Harris
o Deputy Secretary of Energy Turk
o Dean Robert Shibley, Dean of the School of Architecture – tour guide
We are at the GROW Clean Energy Center, which is a sustainable house designed and built by students for the Department of Energy's 2015 Solar
Decathlon competition.
The tour will include a walk down the Solar Strand, which is a solar farm that is used for educational purposes.
The VP will hear from three current undergraduate students and one graduate student.
As part of VP's visit to the GROW Clean Energy Center at the Univ at Buffalo, she toured the GROW Home which the university describes as an "ultra-energy-efficient demonstration home, originally built by students, faculty and staff for a national competition."
Press was not allowed inside during the tour, but photos of her outside the building can be found here: 
VP arrived at UB's center for the arts around 12:50, ahead of remarks on the Inflation Reduction Act scheduled for 2pm.
150-200 students, labor leaders, and community leaders have been invited for the remarks, per her team. Speech will take place in a large atrium space, with a skylight ceiling.
VP began her remarks on the Inflation Reduction Act at the University at Buffalo at 1:43. Wrapped at 1:56.
Partial quotes follow:
"The work that is happening here is very exciting," she said
Climate is "front and center" on the minds of young people "for good reason." To students, she says: "You are leading us forward as a nation, and as the world. And we are counting on you."
"You have seen our nation fail to act with the urgency this crisis demands … Too many so called leaders have lacked the political will and courage to act."
She then touted various investments in the IRA, including electric vehicles, and the need to address equity and environmental justice.
Otter of full remarks: 
Prior to the VP's remarks, Rep. Brian Higgins (D-Buffalo) spoke, noting the last time she was here in Buffalo was in the aftermath of the TOPS mass shooting. "She came with a message of hope."
Full list of speakers at today's event, from the VP's office:
Pre-Program
- President Satish Tripathi, University at Buffalo
- Mayor Brown
- Congressman Higgins
- NYSERDA CEO Doreen Harris
- Energy Deputy Secretary Turk
Program
- Srikrithi Krishnan, Public Health Student
- Vice President Kamala Harris
[
]
VP touched down at JBA at 4:56. VP deplaned at 5:07 and immediately boarded Marine 2. Did not stop for questions.
Also, a note about an unannounced private meeting during the trip - from a White House official on background:
"While visiting Buffalo, New York, the Vice President met with family members of the victims from the Buffalo mass shooting this past May."
That's a wrap.