Pool Reports by 
, 
Briefing featured John Kirby and now has moved to inflation.
The president will hold event on Inflation Reduction Act at 3 pm.
WH press: The President's remarks should be live streamed at 
You can also watch the president's remarks at 
We're at South Lawn site for the president's celebration of the Inflation Reduction Act.
A big crowd - hundreds - has gathered under partly sunny skies for the celebration. A lectern is positioned between state flags in front of the White House.
Members of Congress are in rows of chairs facing the lectern. A band plays an uptempo tune ahead of the ceremony.
First Lady and Second Gentheman arrived first. Then singer James Taylor.
Catching up after work phone died
Run of show for the President's Remarks at the South Lawn celebrating the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act:
Majority Leader of the Senate, Chuck Schumer (NY)
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
The Vice President
Lovette Jacobs, 5th year International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 103 electrical apprentice and member of the Electrical Workers Minority Caucus & Women's Caucus
The President
Attending the President's Remarks at the South Lawn celebrating the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act:
Members of Congress, members of the Cabinet, state and local elected officials, key private and public sector stakeholders, and Hill and agency staff who were critical to the Inflation Reduction Act's passage.
President Biden and Vice President Harris come to lectern.
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi lauded passage of IRA, thanked the president and Dems who passed it.
Joe Biden, wearing his signature sun glasses, now takes the podium - "Hello everyone back there!" To the crowds on the lawn.
He then took off his coat and began his speech, hailing Jacobs, James Taylor, his wife, Harris - and Sen. Joe Manchin. Then all Dem lawmakers.
Walking back and forth on the platform with mic in his hands, Biden delivered a rallying cry for the legislation with several rounds of applause.
He addressed inflation - saying the IRA lowers the deficit and policies overtime will lower it - drug price caps, lower ACA insurance costs, climate measures including tax credits for EVs creating union jobs, tax hikes on big on $400,000+ households, adding 10 million-plus jobs, and "progress."
He also vowed to ban the sale of assault weapons.
Introducing the president was Lovette Jacobs, 5th year International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 103 electrical apprentice and member of the Electrical Workers Minority Caucus & Women's Caucus
Jacobs praised Biden for supporting labor unions, and repeated the theme of promises made, promises kept.
VP Harris opened the final speeches, saying the Biden administration had delivered on its promise to help the country, and praised the resilience of the American people. She highlighted funds for infrastructure and the climate legislation.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good evening. Your pool has loaded into vans at the White House and is motorcading with POTUS to Joint Base Andrews for a trip to Wilmington. We're rolling as of 5:42 pm ET.
Motorcade pulled into JBA at 6:00 pm ET. POTUS emerged from the motorcade and was asked why he's going to Delaware. "To vote," he said.
We're boarding at 6:06 pm ET.
Also clarifying on behalf of the White House that ABC, not Politico, is radio pooling this trip.
AF1 touched down at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 6:46 pm ET. POTUS emerged at 6:59 pm ET with FLOTUS. They entered the motorcade without coming over to your pool.
We're rolling at 7:00 pm ET.
Motorcade arrived at a polling station located inside the Tatnall School's Laird Performing Arts Center at 7:14 pm ET. POTUS emerged at 7:16 pm ET and walked into the center with FLOTUS.
Your pool has been informed we won't have access inside the voting place itself, and therefore won't be able to see POTUS cast his ballot. We're holding on the lawn outside.
POTUS emerged from the center at 7:22 and answered a few questions.
Asked whether Ukraine has reached a turning point in the war:
"The question is unanswerable. It's hard to tell. It's clear the Ukrainians have made significant progress. But it's going to be a long haul."
Asked about the stock market:
"The stock market doesn't necessarily reflect the state of the economy, as you all know," he said. The economy is still strong, unemployment is low."
Asked about whether he is worried about inflation:
"No, I'm not," he said. "We're talking one tenth of one percent."
POTUS declined to answer questions on the looming rail strike.
Thanks to WHCA pooler for assistance pulling quotes.
We're rolling at 7:26 pm ET.
POTUS and FLOTUS have stopped at their residence. Your pool is holding on a bus nearby.
The president's motorcade is back on the move as of 7:44 pm ET.
POTUS' motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 7:52 pm ET, with POTUS and FLOTUS swiftly boarding Air Force One. We are heading back to Washington. Wheels up shortly.
AF1 touched down at JBA at 8:35 pm ET after an uneventful flight. POTUS emerged with FLOTUS at 8:44 pm ET and entered the motorcade without taking any questions.
We are on our way back to the White House.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 9:12 pm ET. the President and First Lady went straight inside the residence.
A lid was declared at 9:15 pm ET. Good night.