Pool Reports by 
, 
President Biden will travel to Licking County, Ohio to deliver remarks at the groundbreaking of Intel's new $20 billion semiconductor manufacturing facility in Licking County, near Columbus, Ohio. The facility will contain at least two 'fabs', which will be built by union labor, creating over 7,000 construction jobs and 3,000 full time jobs producing leading edge chips.
"Intel committed this funding in anticipation of the passage of the bipartisan, CHIPS and Science Act, which will provide investment and R&D to the semiconductor industry.
"Thanks to the President's economic plan – including the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the Inflation Reduction Act – we are seeing a manufacturing boom nationwide, that is strengthening our economic and national security and creating good-paying, American jobs. Our economy has already added more than 680,000 manufacturing jobs since President Biden took office, which is more manufacturing jobs on average per month than any other President in the last 50 years."
As part of the President's visit to Ohio, Intel will announce it has distributed $17.7 million to Ohio colleges and universities to develop semiconductor-focused education and workforce programs, as part of its $50 million Ohio Semiconductor Education and Research Program. This includes partnering with community colleges across Ohio, the state's oldest historically Black university, and other institutions to train thousands of workers to work in Ohio's growing semiconductor industry. Intel and the National Science Foundation will invest $100 million in similar programs across the country."
:
:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Licking County, Ohio
Marine One landed at JBA at 9:42 a.m. The president walked over to AF1 (the big plane today), pausing as if hesitating on whether to answer pool's questions, but then heading on up the stairs.
Per the White House, potus was met by Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
The White House also sent this list of other Marine One passengers:
We're taxiing at 9:50 a.m, wheels up shortly.
Note the Karine Jean-Pierre briefing which will be piped through on the usual White House YouTube page during our flight, which is due to run about 1:10 hour.
AF1 was wheels down in Columbus, Ohio, at 10:36 a.m. No visitors to the press cabin other than the gaggle with Press Sec Jean-Pierre.
POTUS deplaned at 10:45 and did not stop to talk to pool.
Motorcade is rolling for the Intel site at New Albany, Licking County.
Here is a list of the people who were with the president on the plane, per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Columbus International Airport:
• Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
• Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-3)
• Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
• Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
• Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
• Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
• Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
• Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
• Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
• Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
• Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
• Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement
POTUS motorcade arrived at the future Intel semiconductor site at 11:18 a.m.
Pool was not able to see POTUS exit the Beast.
On the road we passed approx 20 supporters of Donald Trump, bearing signs and flags that included "Let's go Brandon " and "Trump won", as well as some vulgarities. A small, separate group was composed of people with Proud Boys signs.
Mostly though the road went through expanses of fields before ending at the site, featuring a lot of diggers and other heavy building equipment.
The president's speech is scheduled for 12:15 but we are currently running a quarter hour late.
Here is the list per WH of motorcade travelers:
And for the record, the WH gives these names of the Columbus airport greeters:
From the WH:
Prior to delivering remarks, the President will meet with a group of workers who are members of local unions that will benefit from the new Intel facility. These workers include pipefitters, electricians, excavators, ironworkers, safety managers, shift supervisors and more. They will share with the President what their jobs entail and how this new facility - which will create over 7,000 constructions and 3,000 full time jobs producing leading edge chips - will make a difference for them and their families.
Prior to the President's remarks, Central Ohio Technical College student Affiong Hawkins will speak and introduce Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger. Hawkins is a STEM major at Central Ohio Technical College, and a working mother. As part of the President's visit to Ohio, Intel announced it has distributed $17.7 million to Ohio colleges and universities to develop semiconductor-focused education and workforce programs. These investments will help students like Hawkins, who will have the opportunity to get the training needed to work in Ohio's growing semiconductor industry.
Following Hawkins' remarks, Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger will introduce the President. Gelsinger last saw the President on August 9, 2022 at the signing of the CHIPS and Science Act. Gelsinger was was named CEO in 2021 and spent the first 30 years of his career at Intel.
The president was shown a model of the future factory and some pictures of what it's meant to look like, before he met 11 workers dressed in high-vis yellow jackets and hard hats.
It's difficult to hear against the constant noise of enormous earth movers working to level the area behind the president.
As he approached the workers, Biden said: "These are my people, where I come from."
And earlier, while checking the factory model alongside Gov. Mike DeWine, Sen. Sherrod Brown and Sen. Rob Portman, he said approvingly: "Not bad work, huh?"
If you need a snapshot of what the scene looks like I posted a couple on Twitter @SebastianAFP
Impossible to transmit is the smell, which seems to be more related to the surrounding farms than the semiconductor future.
Pool now holding in intense sunshine ahead of the president's address. We did briefly speak to Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio who was asked about his earlier comments regarding a second Biden term.
Ryan said:
"The president said from the very beginning he was going to be a bridge to the next generation, which is basically what I was saying."
Should Biden run again?
"That's up to him
Asked about China tariffs should be lifted, Rep. Ryan said "no," mentioning this would be "damaging" to the state's sole panel industry.
The WH gave a two min warning at 12:23 pm.
The president will take the podium under blazing sunshine. There are several hundred people in the audience seated on white folding chairs. A big US flag hangs from the digging arm of a yellow earth digger. Other pieces of heavy equipment surround the site, while still more pieces of machinery continue to churn away in the field behind.
You can get this speech live on the WH YouTube site, posted here, so will not send quotes.
President Biden's address started at 12:33 pm and lasted 18 minutes.
Pool is holding in the motorcade, unable for now to lay eyes on POTUS' movements. The WH says he is doing a photo line
At 1:03 p.m, the motorcade is rolling for Columbus airport.
The WH provided this list of people in the photo line:
Also for the record the run of show for the speech as it actually happened per the WH:
Jerry Revish, event emcee
Keyvan Esfarjani, Chief Global Operations and General Manager at Intel
Lieutenant Governor Jon Husted (OH)
JP Nauseef, CEO of JobsOhio
General Lester Lyles, former U.S. Air Force General
Christy Pambianchi, Executive Vice President and Chief People Office of Intel
Dr. Fredric Bertley, the CEO of the Center of Science and Industry (COSI)
Stephanie Hightower, the CEO of Columbus Urban League
Rep. Troy Balderson (OH-12)
Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-3)
Jim Evers, a factory manager at Intel, delivers remarks
Jerry Revish
Jerry Revish, event emcee
Keyvan Esfarjani, Chief Global Operations and General Manager at Intel
Governor Mike DeWine (OH)
A STEM Student from Ohio
Senator Rob Portman (OH)
A construction worker from Ohio
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Dr. Kristina Johnson, President of Ohio State University
Affiong Hawkins, Central Ohio Technical College student to the stage.
Pat Gelsinger, CEO of Intel
The President
Pool asked if he will attend the funeral.
"Yes. I don't know what the details are yet but I'll be going," Biden replied.
POTUS boarded Air Force One after an uneventful motorcade. He came briefly over to talk to pool (see previous report). An Additional quote. When asked if he had spoken to King Charles III, Biden replied:
"I know him. I haven't spoken to him. I did not call him."
.at 1:40 pm We are now taxiing. Next stop: Dover Air Force Base.
Here's the WH manifest for the motorcade from the Intel site:
AF1 was wheels down at Dover AFB at 2:42 pm. We had an off the record visit to our cabin from National Economic Council director Brian Deese. Otherwise uneventful.
POTUS disembarked at 2:53 pm without coming over to see pool.
He then boarded Marine One en route to Delaware Air National Guard base near Wilmington. Pool is following in an Osprey. We are lifting at 2:58 pm.
The WH provided this list of AF1 passengers:
Marine One landed at DANG at 3:23 pm. POTUS got into his limo and at 3:30 pm we are rolling.
The WH sent this:
*Clarification on report 12 - so no confusion, the Deese visit was not OTR, only the discussion we had was OTR.
At 3:40 pm the front of the motorcade peeled off into the Biden family's Wilmington residence. Pool did not lay eyes on the president. We are now heading to our hotel.
Thanks for help today from Alex Leary and other poolers.
At 4:05 pm the WH announced a travel-photo lid.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Pool has been gathered for Marine 1 departure on the South Lawn driveway.
The helicopter is here, turbines whining. Now awaiting the president.
Departure is open press, so you could be here if you wanted.
The president emerged from the South Portico entrance at 0920 and made a beeline to the several dozen White House staff gathered behind a rope line across from the assembled press.
He shook hands and chatted for seven minutes, then walked directly from the far end of the roped-off area to the helicopter, waving to the media and climbed aboard at 0928. He was never closer than 200 feet from us.
Marine 1 lifted off into the nearly cloudless blue at 0932, en route to Joint Base Andrews for the trip to Ohio.
Per the WH press office:
Handing off to my capable colleague in the French media for continued pool coverage of today's presidential events.
Au revoir.