Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi all - I'm your travel pooler for today's trip to Detroit.
The motorcade departed the South Lawn at 8:49 a.m.
Pool did not see POTUS.
Your pooler spotted Karine Jean-Pierre, Anita Dunn and Bruce Reed mingling outside the motorcade before we left.
It's 65 degrees and sunny on this late summer day.
More TK.
The motorcade pulled up to Air Force One on the tarmac of JBA at 9:14 a.m.
The drive was uneventful.
Traveling with the President in the motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:
President Biden stepped out of his SUV at 9:15 a.m. He ignored pool and briefly talked to the greeter. He waved at the top of the stairs and entered AF1 9:16 a.m.
We'll be wheels up momentarily.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Detroit Metropolitan Airport:
Air Force One was wheels up at 9:26 a.m.
Karine Jean-Pierre started her gaggle at 10:11 a.m.
She spoke for about 14.5 minutes.
She confirmed that the president spoke with King Charles earlier today. I'm told that the gaggle played out.
We were wheels down at 10:26 a.m.
More TK.
President Biden disembarked AF1 at 10:38 a.m. He's wearing his aviators. He first approached Rep. Tlaib and then went down the line. Sen. Stabenow, Secretary Buttigieg, Rep. Dingell et. al. followed the president off the plane. They mingled on the tarmac for several minutes.
He stepped into the beast at 10:41 a.m.
He didn't acknowledge the pool.
Motorcade pulled away at 10:43 a.m.
Greeting the President on arrival at Detroit Metropolitan Airport:
The motorcade pulled in at 11:11 a.m.
As we exited the airport there were clusters of onlookers with their phones out. The motorcade passed the Uniroyal Giant Tire - a historical landmark that started out as a Ferris wheel at the 1964 New York World's Fair. Otherwise, motorcade ride was uneventful.
Pool is pre-setting for the tour and didn't see the president enter.
Participating in the greet with the President on the tarmac at Detroit Metropolitan Airport:
Passing along:
Pool is holding on the floor of the car show waiting for POTUS.
Today, President Biden will tour the Detroit Auto Show, the largest auto show in North America. Throughout the day, he will meet with union workers, CEOs, and local leaders. He will also stop at the Chevrolet, General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis booths to view some of their latest car models on display, including the:
, which is being manufactured at the Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Michigan and features a 2.0L I4 Turbo / PHEV engine.
 which is manufactured at the Toledo North Assembly Plant, OH, and features a 2.0L I4 Turbo / PHEV engine.
, which is starting production this month in Bowling Green, Kentucky. With 670 horsepower, the Corvette Z06 features a powerful naturally-aspirated production V8 engine, hand-built in Bowling Green as well by master builders.
, which starts production next year in Michigan and is estimated to have a range of 400 miles on a full charge. The car features up to 10.2kW of off-board power when paired with the available accessory power bar and up to 10,000 lbs. of maximum trailering.
, which the President test drove during a factory visit in Dearborn, MI last year.
Following the tour, the President will deliver remarks on how his economic plan is fueling the electric vehicle manufacturing boom in America and lowering costs for American families. He will also announce that his Administration is approving the first set of electric charging plans for 35 states, including Michigan's plan, ahead of schedule. Together these 35 states will cover 53,000 miles of highway with EV chargers, serving 
.
Introducing the President will be Ryan Buchalski, the President of UAW LOCAL 598, where has been a member for 20 years. Buchalski is the representative for members at the Flint Assembly plant, which builds heavy duty pickups for General Motors.
Since President Biden took office, 
 in America and companies have announced nearly $85 billion to build America's electric vehicle future. For instance:
The president entered the showroom floor at 11:36 a.m.
The pool spotted GM's Mark Reuss and Mary Barra awaiting Biden's arrival, along with Craig Glidden - GM's general counsel.
POTUS first greeted Mary Barra and started the tour in the GMC section.
Pool then pre-set in front of a bright orange Corvette.
Biden remarked something to the pool as he laid eyes on the car. We believe he said, this thing's nice, but it was hard to hear.
Barra guided Biden into the driver's seat and he turned on the motor and fired up the engine - which is very loud. One of the GM execs offered Biden his hand to help him out of the sports car.
"He said he's driving it home," Barra said.
More TK
Touring the Detroit Auto Show with the President:
Biden then sidled up next to a bright blue all-electric Silverado. Barra showed the president how much space is in the bed and then they walked along to the driver's seat, with the president getting in. He didn't turn on the engine this time.
The president briefly paused for a photo-op, as pool was pulled out of earshot.
Now we're in the Ford section and the president is looking at an orange electric Mustang with Bill Ford
The president was comparing the specs of the Mustang versus his Corvette - and how long it takes to get up to 60 MPH.
"But who's counting," he said.
As the president walked up toward an electric Ford truck, he turned to the pool.
"Can I ask you all a favor," he asked. He then told us that his wife says that happy birthday must be sung on a person's birthday and asked the pool to sing to a woman named Angela.
"She's turning 21," Biden remarked.
"Thank you, my wife would kill me," he said as the song wrapped up.
More TK
Next Biden took a look at a 2022 Electric Ford E-Transit utility van.
And then we headed to Jeep. The president greeted Carlos Tavares, CEO of Stellantis. He first walked up on a pedestal to look at the Grand Cherokee and then a Jeep employee pulled up in a Wrangler. Two more Jeep employees drove by in a electric Grand Cherokee.
The president got into the driver's seat of the Grand Cherokee on display, while the other vehicles went through an obstacle course called "Camp Jeep" around him. He didn't turn the engine on.
"He's thinking about it," Sen. Stabenow told the pool when asked if Biden was going to buy the Corvette. She also talked midterms and Sen. Graham's abortion bill. Let your pooler know if you'd like the Otter.
Pool also talked to Gov. Whitmer and Rep. Dingell.
Whitmer initially brushed off a question about whether Biden should run again in 2024, but Dingell jumped in and said she would support him.
"I'm gonna tell you if he runs, we're all supporting him," Dingell said, adding that those are "questions designed to cause trouble."
"There's no question, if President Biden runs again count me in," Stabenow chimed in when asked *if* he should run again.
Let your pooler know if you'd like that Otter as well.
POTUS is with 60 Minutes so pool has been holding by the Lincoln display.
More TK.
Biden test drove an electric Cadillac Lyriq through the show room.
He has a Secret Service agent in the passenger seat
"It's a beautiful car but I love the Corvette," he said.
"I like it, I like it," he said.
Press was pulled as he was still speaking, I'll send any more additional quotes in the next report.
The speaking program has started in Detroit. The remarks are livestreamed, so I'll only send color.
Run of Show for the President's remarks at the Detroit Auto Show:
There are an assortment of Jeeps, Fords and other cars behind him on a stage that are red, white and blue – and one that's silver. There's also a massive flag alongside one of the walls. A white Hummer, like he drove last year, is parked next to the flag.
Between a half and a third of audience members are wearing the red UAW t-shirts and polos.
Participating in a photo line with the President at the Detroit Auto Show:
To make life easier for your pooler, here are the Otters of Stabenow/Whitmer/Dingell:
And here's a Dropbox link for photos from the Stabenow/Whitmer/Dingell chat, along with a few shots of POTUS and cars:
President Biden started his remarks at 2:15 p.m., after a raucous speech by Ryan Buchalski, who said the president was, "Kicking ass for the working class!"
Biden said that the cars at the auto show give him "optimism." "Although I like their speed too," he added.
"I'm so tired to trickle down I can't stand it," he later noted.
He wrapped at 2:35 p.m. He got a standing ovation.
He then started working the crowd. Pool is holding.
Earlier, Rep. Dingell mentioned that GOP Rep. Fred Upton was in the audience, making it a bipartisan outing.
Gov. Whitmer also spoke. The run-of-show had Sen. Stabenow listed twice.
More TK
Pool was brought into the Portside Ballroom of the Huntington Place convention center for a Michigan Democratic Party fundraiser for Gov. Whitmer.
"We know he's a car guy, but he didn't have to be here," she said during her remarks, thanking him for making the trip.
Biden arrived onstage at 3:26 a.m.
He made a joke again about Rep. Dingell being "my boss."
He hit many of the same themes he's mentioned in recent political appearances.
"The right to choose is on the ballot," he said. "Is literally on the ballot."
"This is not your father's Republican Party," Biden said, adding that goes for "Gretchen's opponent" who "wants to take us backwards full of anger and division."
Biden's mic was cutting in and out during his remarks.
He alluded to Trump's many infrastructure weeks, saying he made it a "punchline," unlike Democrats who got the bill passed.
"They embrace political violence," he again said of "extreme" Republicans.
"To this day they defend those who stormed the Capitol on January 6," he said.
"The extreme MAGA Republicans are destroying American democracy," he said.
Pool was pulled at 3:40 p.m. as speech wrapped.
Probably 150-200 people in the crowd.
More Tk
The motorcade pulled out of the convention center 3:54 p.m.
The ride was uneventful.
It pulled up to Air Force One at 4:24 p.m.
Biden was walking up the stairs as pool pulled up. We glimpsed him from a distance boarding at 4:26 p.m.
We'll be wheels up to JBA shortly.
Fuller, additional quotes from the fundraiser: "The right to choose is on the ballot," he said. "In this state, is literally on the ballot."
"There is an extreme set of Republicans who run the Republican Party today. And that includes Gretchen's opponent from what I've read, who wants to take us backwards full of anger and division."
"On choice, Democrats want to codify Roe v. Wade, Republicans want a national ban on abortion. In fact, Gretchen's opponent supports an extreme ban with no exceptions for rape, incest or the life of the mother."
"Gretchen's opponent calls the infrastructure law fake, while Gretchen knows infrastructure provides jobs while keeping commitments ... Fixing the damn roads, for instance."
Air Force One was wheels up from Detroit at 4:37 p.m.
We had no visitors to the press cabin. 
AF1 landed at JBA at 5:38 p.m. 
President Biden disembarked AF1 at 5:48 p.m. He's wearing his aviators. He saluted to the greeter and turned away from the pool. He walked onto Marine One at 5:49 p.m. 
He was followed onto Marine One by Karine Jean-Pierre, Anita Dunn and Bruce Reed, among others.
Marine One was wheels up at 5:55 p.m. 
Traveling with the President in Marine One en route the White House:
A big thanks to Aurelia End who served as a great co-pooler today. 
Tossing it to the in-town pool after providing some additional fundraiser details:
Speaking Order for the Michigan Democratic Party reception:
Participating in a photo line with the President at a Michigan Democratic Party reception:
Thanks all!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning,
The White House advises that the AF1 gaggle will begin at approximately 10:05 AM.
Link: 
The pool is gathering for the president's arrival on the South Lawn.
President Biden landed on the South Lawn in Marine One at 6:06 PM EDT.
He exited the helicopter and walked across the grass to the Oval Office -- far away from press and questions that were being shouted in his direction over the roar of the helo. He entered the Oval at 6:10 pm and shut the door behind him.
The White House announced a travel/photo lid at 6:24 pm EDT. Have a good evening, everyone!