Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from still dark Wilmington on this anniversary of 9/11. Pool has been Covid tested and will soon be swept, while awaiting POTUS for the return to a rainy Washington. AF1 is scheduled to be wheels up at 7:35 a.m
Here's the full schedule:
At 7:17 a.m the president's motorcade was rolling out of the road from his residence. Pool not able to see POTUS himself. We're headed to AF1 at the Delaware Air National Guard base.
At 7:32 a.m. President Biden boarded (the small) Air Force One. He came over to pool under the wing. And answered three questions: justice for families of 9-11 victims, Russian losses in Ukraine, and if he talked with the king. No substancial answers. Said hasnt talked to king recently. Not commenting on Ukraine. More later.
We're wheels up shortly, headed to JBA.
Please check audio and the official transcript but here is the Q&A pool had with the president before taking off from Delaware on AF1:
Q: "A lot of families, they want justice done for the people who were responsible for 9/11. And some of them have been sitting in Guantanamo for two decades. Do you have a plan to deal with that, sir?"
A: "For families in Guantanamo?"
Q: "No the families of the people who were victims on 9/11."
A: "Yes, there is a plan for that."
Q: "Do you know what's going on in Ukraine right now? There's reports of Russia's like on the run in large parts."
A: "Yes I do but I'm not going to speak to that now because things are in process."
Q: "Have you spoken to the king?"
A: "No. I've spoken to him many times but I haven't spoken to him since he's become king."
AF1 touched down at 8:06 a.m in heavy rain and blustery wind.
The president disembarked at 8:20 a.m. and got in the Beast without coming back over to pool under the wing. He wore a tan raincoat and carried a large black umbrella.
Handing over to the in-town pool for today's 9/11 event.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Air Force One touched down at Joint Base Andrew's at 8:04. Plane taxi'd to the front of the motorcade for a few minutes afterward.
It was a downpour by the time the president de-planed, on what has been a very rainy day in the capital region. Pool saw Biden de-plane at 8:19, with a large black umbrella and beige raincoat, and he entered the Beast shortly thereafter.
Pool is now rolling in the motorcade to the Pentagon.
Motorcade arrived at the Pentagon at 8:46
En route, we passed a car that appeared to have slid off the road on the eastbound side of Suitland Parkway — emergency responders were on hand. It has been a steady downpour most of the morning here.
Reminder that the president is scheduled to give remarks at 9:50, after attending a wreath-laying ceremony.
Pool has gathered outside the Pentagon. Pool did not see president leave the Beast — we are told he is in a nearby tent. We are awaiting the wreath-laying ceremony while America the Beautiful" plays
The president walked slowly between two rows of members of the armed forces, a marine holding an umbrella over his head, making us way to a wreath that had been set up.
The president approached the wreath and stood for a few minutes looking at it. He then approached the wreath, put his hands on either side of it for a moment, before touching his hand to his heart as he stepped away.
Biden was introduced at this event along with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Mark Milley.
The ceremony has begun. They are reading off the names of the men and women who died on Sept 11, 2001 at the Pentagon, with a single bell chime after each name.
Less than a minute before the president began walking, a member of the military who had been lined up collapsed on the ground. He got to his feet soon after and was escorted away.
White House passes this along:
Greeting the President on arrival at the Pentagon:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Memorial Ceremony at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial:
Speech started at 9:49. You can watch it at 
His remarks come after speeches from Austin and Milley.
The president's speech ended at 10:04
Pool estimates a few hundred people were on hand for the speech, many in full military uniform. A steady rain continued through the remarks.
Pool was moved shortly after the speech back to the motorcade and held there for several minutes. Motorcade now rolling back to the White House as of 10:14 — pool did not see the president enter the Beast.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 10:21, after an uneventful trip back. Pool saw the president exit the Beast and enter the White House through the South Portico.
And we have a lid. Everyone have a good Sunday
One additional item from today, passed along by a White House official:
, President Biden formally accepted an invitation to attend the State Funeral Service of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II 
 He will be accompanied by the First Lady.