Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Johnson Space Center in Houston. Skies are blue and temps are in the 80s.
VP Harris arrived at NASA's Mission Control Center just after 10 am
NASA administrator Bill Nelson is here.
VP is making a call to US astronauts on the International Space station.
Harris tells astronauts that as a "space nerd" and chair of the space council it's an honor to speak to astronauts.
Astronauts are Kiel Lindgren, Jessica Watkins and Bob Hines.
Harris is speaking to the astronauts from black phone at the flight directors desk. Wearing black blazer.
Call was cut short after apparent lost connection with ISS. NASA staff warned there was limited window to speak to the station.
Press being moved to holding room as todays space council meeting gets set up
Press is waiting in mission control observation room while VP does interview for Meet the Press.
Harris is being joined today by STEM students from Wheatley High School in Houston.
Today's National Space Council meeting is focused on "advancing the Administration priorities in expanding Space STEM education and workforce development, human space exploration, and rules for commercial novel space activities," per VP's office background.
Full background from OVP's office
The National Space Council's mission is to preserve and advance the United States' leadership in space—and to make sure that the use of space continues to improve the lives of people on Earth. Last year, at the first meeting of the National Space Council, Vice President Harris identified three priorities essential to that work: expanding our STEM workforce, addressing the climate crisis, and promoting international rules and norms to govern space activities. Friday's meeting will report on the progress made since the first meeting and expand on the work ahead to: build a skilled technical space workforce, advance human space exploration, and establish rules for commercial novel space activities.
As part of a larger set of announcements that will be made at the meeting, the Vice president will release anInteragency Roadmap to Support Space-Related Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) Education and Workforce. This roadmap outlines the initial set of coordinated federal actions to bolster our nation's capacity to inspire, prepare, and employ a diverse and inclusive space workforce.
 
. These pilot programs will help thousands of traditionally under represented workers in the space field, learn the skills and access the opportunities they need to take on 21st century space jobs. A full list of STEM space-related announcements from the Administration, the private sector, and philanthropy are in the attached factsheet
In her remarks, Vice President Harris will:
The Vice President's convening of the second National Space Council meeting builds on her work to amplify the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to deliver the benefits of space to the American people and ensure those benefits are broadly and equitably applied throughout society.
We're now in NASA's space vehicle mock-up facilty, also known as Building 9, for the the National Space Council meeting.
The council table is set up between mock-ups of modules from the International Space Station and the new Orion space capsule, which is being used in the Aremtis missions. Further in the background are a model lunar lander and a space shuttle.
Audience is set up for around 200 people. NASA astronaut Christina Koch is in the audience in blue astronaut jumpsuit
Per VP's office
Vice President Harris will convene the Administration's second National Space Council meeting, which will be focused on advancing the Administration priorities in expanding Space STEM education and workforce development, human space exploration, and rules for commercial novel space activities. The meeting will be held at Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX and the full meeting will be livestreamed at 
.
Meeting begins at 1:26
Johnson Space Center director Vanessa Wyche with opening statement. She notes that JSC is celebrating the 60th anniversary of itsfounding. next week is also the 60th anniversary of John F. Kennedy's moon speech.
Harris walks in to applause to begin speech.
Harris announces space training partnership program with private businesses.
Program is meant to build "skilled, technical space workforce" more than a dozen companies participating.
Talks about the need for not only engineers, but welders, machinists and other technical jobs that don't need four-year-degrees.
Next, Harris talks about Artemis program. Talking about returning to the moon to stay, by building a lunar base and space station and using those facilities to train for going to Mars.
Harris reiterates administration's commitment to the ISS through 2030, and said it is working with private companies for commercial space stations.
Today's NSC meeting will also discuss rules for novel commercial space activities, Harris says
Rules will be flexible enough to cover activities that have not yet been imagined, harris said.
Harris says 21 countries have now signed Artemis accords, an agreement for peaceful exploration of space.
White House just shared list of present NSC members
- Vice President Kamala Harris
- Administrator Bill Nelson, National Aeronautics & Space Administration
- Deputy Director Nani Coloretti, Office of Management & Budget
- Stacey Dixon, Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence
- Deputy Secretary Don Graves, U.S. Department of Commerce
- Deputy Secretary Polly Trottenberg, U.S. Department of Transportation
- Deputy Secretary John Tien, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
- Deputy Secretary Cindy Marten, U.S. Department of Education
- Deputy Secretary Jewel Bronaugh, U.S. Department of Agriculture
- Undersecretary Heidi Shyu, U.S. Department of Defense
- Assistant Secretary Monica Medina, U.S. Department of State
- General James Dickinson, Commander, U.S. Space Command
- Assistant Secretary Tanya Trujillo, U.S. Department of Interior
- Acting Director Alondra Nelson, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
- Chike Aguh, Chief Innovation Officer, U.S. Department of Labor
- Jessica Rosenworcel, Chairwoman, Federal Communications Commission
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello all,
I'm your pooler for the VP's event at the British Embassy to sign the condolence book honoring the Queen (just like POTUS did yesterday)
We have a 2mn warning at 8:24pm
The VP & the SG walked into the British embassy at 8:27pm. They were greeted by Dame Karen Pierce, British ambassador to the US.
They exchanged a few words. The VP offered her a bouquet and apologized for being a bit late.
They then went over to speak to a group of about 30 embassy staffers standing by the entrance.
VP about the Queen: "She was so sincere and committed… she lived what it means to be strong…
We are here to express our condolences."
(She was far from pool so It was very hard to hear her speak. I could only make out a few sentences.)
At 8:30pm VP walked over to the table with the condolence book (decorated with flowers and a portrait of the Queen) where she sat to write her message. The SG also signed.
At 8:33pm VP and the ambassador walked out of the building. They spoke for a few minutes at the door before the VP & SG left to return to the residence, which is, as you know, just next door.
I've tweeted a picture of the VP signing the book (@ketgorjestani)
I've also asked the VP team for some info about the content of the message and will let you know.
From the VP's office:
The Vice President wrote the following message in the UK Embassy Condolence Book:
Queen Elizabeth II lived an extraordinary life of service, and we join the millions around the world who mourn this incredible loss. Through the trials and triumphs of the past seven decades, she led with strength, with wisdom, and with grace.