Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from London. I'll be your pooler as POTUS and FLOTUS attend Queen Elizabeth's funeral at Westminster Abbey. The service is closed press.
The pool left the press RON hotel at 8:50 am. We headed to Winfield House Grounds, where we were swept and held for POTUS and FLOTUS, who joined the motorcade at 9:45 am.
We are rolling to Westminster Abbey.
Here's the rest of the schedule:
 
Westminster Abbey
Closed Press
 
London Stansted Airport
Out-of-Town Pool
 
Stakeout Location
In-Town Travel Pool
 
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Pool
 
Joint Base Andrews
In-Town Travel Pool
 
North Grounds
In-Town Travel Pool
[
]
Sending on behalf of the pooler:
POTUS arrived at Westminster Abbey at 10:07 AM.
From the White House:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Westminster Abbey:
The Very Reverend Dr. David Hoyle, Dean of Westminster Abbey
On the way here, we passed Hyde Park, where jumbo screens had been set up on the lawn to show the funeral. Crowds of people lined the streets.
Pool is now holding near Westminster Abbey.
The motorcade pulled away from Westminster Abbey at 1:13 pm local.
We are en route to London Stansted Airport, for the return trip home via JBA.
(Apologies to those who received the previous report twice because of spotty wi-fi issues.)
Motorcade pulled into London Stansted Airport at 2:11 pm local time.
POTUS emerged from the motorcade - the first time the pool has seen him today outside The Beast - and boarded Air Force One a few minutes later after waving to media. He did not take any questions.
Pool is boarding at 2;18 pm.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Jane Hartley, Ambassador of the United States to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol
John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
Charlie Fromstein, NSC Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
Wheels up on Air Force One at 2:30.
Wheels down on Air Force One at JBA at 4:25 pm ET following an uneventful flight, with no visitors to the back of the plane.
POTUS deplaned Air Force One.
From The WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William C. McDonald, Vice Wing Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Diana McDonald, Spouse of Colonel McDonald
POTUS joined the motorcade at 4:36 pm and is en route to the White House.
Turning it over to the in-town pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hi all,
I'm your print pooler for this evening.
President Biden touched down on AF1 at Joint Base Andrews at 4:25 PM.
President Biden and FLOTUS exited AF1 at 4:35PM. Motorcade rolling at 4:37PM.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House just before 5:00 PM.
WH called at lid at 5:17 PM.
Have a good evening! I'm at 412-335-9027 if anyone needs me.