President Biden's economic plan is building a clean energy future in America that is creating good-paying jobs, lowering energy costs, and tackling the climate crisis.
On Tuesday, President Biden welcomed thousands of guests to the White House to celebrate passage of the Inflation Reduction Act—the most aggressive action the United States has taken to combat climate change, while advancing environmental justice and saving families money. On Wednesday, he toured the Detroit Auto Show to celebrate the American electric vehicle manufacturing boom spurred by his economic plan.
Throughout the week, the Biden-Harris Administration charged forward with major executive actions across sectors to tackle the climate crisis:
The Administration also launched 
, a website to help families learn how the Inflation Reduction Act can save them money on more energy efficient appliances that bring down utility bills, buying a new or used electric vehicle, and more.
[Zach Montague and Coral Davenport, 9/14/22]
President Biden, a self-described "car guy" and Corvette owner, toured the North American International Auto Show in Detroit on Wednesday and announced the 
 across the federal highway system.
[David Shepardson and Jeff Mason, 9/14/22]
President Joe Biden took a victory lap on Wednesday at the Detroit auto show, highlighting automakers' increasing shift to electric vehicles and 
. . . White House National Climate Adviser Ali Zaidi told Reuters automakers and battery firms in 2022 announced "$13 billion into EV manufacturing" as they accelerate "the pace of their investment into capital projects here in the United States."
[Colleen Long and Tom Krisher, 9/14/22]
In Detroit, Biden announced approval of the first $900 million in infrastructure money to build
 "The great American road trip is going to be fully electrified," Biden said.
[Justine Calma, 9/15/22]
The Biden administration announced splashy new goals today aimed at 
 The announcement substantially expands Biden's previous offshore wind ambitions by opening up new areas that traditional fixed-bottom turbines haven't been able to reach.
[Nichola Groom, 9/15/22]
The Biden administration on Thursday unveiled a plan to accelerate development of next-generation floating offshore wind farms by 
. The announcement was the latest in the White House's push to bolster the nation's fledgling offshore wind industry as part of its climate-change agenda.
[Matthew Daly and Jennifer McDermott, 9/15/22]
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown said her state and California have some of the best wind resources in the world, but called floating platforms crucial to develop them due to the depth of the ocean floor along the West Coast. Heather Zichal, CEO of the American Clean Power Association, an industry group, called the announcement 
and allow the U.S. to lead in this emerging technology.
[Ella Nilsen, 9/15/22]
The Biden administration on Thursday announced several new initiatives to develop technology for massive, floating offshore wind turbines as part of the effort to 
 . . . Outgoing White House climate adviser Gina McCarthy called offshore wind a "new American industry that's really booming" and said the new initiative were designed so the US can try to position itself "to lead the world on floating offshore wind."
[Stephen Lee, 9/15/22]
The Biden administration said Thursday it will tell agencies to buy low-carbon types of steel, concrete, asphalt, and flat glass. Taken together, 
, and 98% of the government's construction materials purchases, according to a White House fact sheet. The plan also extends to federally-funded projects, the White House said.
[Trevor Hubert, 9/15/22]
For U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, Thursday served as a "win-win-win," as he highlighted the department's commitment to 
. . . The Biden Administration delegation led by Mr. Buttigieg, deputy national climate adviser Ali Zaidi, and U.S. General Services Administration administrator Robin Carnahan used the Cleveland-Cliffs facility as an example of what the administration is looking for: American-made, energy-efficient material production to power everything from electric vehicles to wind turbines.
[Robin Bravender, 9/15/22]
The administration announced Thursday that it's 
That task force — led by the Council on Environmental Quality and White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy — was launched in February to promote the purchase of lower-emitting construction materials.
[Leah Douglas, 9/14/22]
The U.S. Department of Agriculture will 
 it had initially envisioned for the program, the agency announced on Wednesday. The investment is part of a broader effort by the administration of President Joe Biden to decarbonize the U.S. economy within decades and make the United States a leader in the fight against global climate change.
[Jared Strong, 9/14/22]
The Biden administration plans to distribute more than $3 billion to fund projects that will 
 — a tripling of its initial commitment in February . . . The initial round of projects is expected to encompass the production of livestock, milk, corn, soybeans, wheat, rice, peanuts, cotton, timber and others, with producers in each state included in at least one project. The program requires that those project leaders make periodic reports of their progress.
[Farm News Media, 9/14/22]
USDA anticipates projects through the Climate-Smart Commodities program will result in 
 The department used recommendations from the Food and Agricultural Climate Alliance (FACA), a group comprised of more than 80 member organizations — including AFBF — when developing the Partnerships for Climate-Smart Commodities.
[Coral Davenport, 9/13/22]
The Inflation Reduction Act signed into law by President Biden in August includes about $370 billion to fight climate change, some of it in the form of 
 for their homes . . . The Biden administration has created a 
 designed to help you figure out which cars, appliances and home improvements will qualify for the tax credits and rebates.
[Andrew J. Hawkins, 9/13/22]
The Biden administration launched a new website — CleanEnergy.gov — aimed at helping Americans navigate the new green energy tax credits contained in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) . . . 
 The website serves as a hub for basic questions about the clean energy tax credits, redirecting visitors to other government sites that contain more detailed information about solar roof installation, heat pumps, and other repairs they could make to make their home more energy efficient.