Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning on a sunny day at the White House. President Biden and the First Lady are leaving for London ahead of attending Queen Elizabeth's funeral.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped out onto the South Lawn at 10:03. They declined to respond to a series of shouted questions.
They boarded Marine One one minute later. And M1 was wheels up to JBA at 10:07.
Over to you, out-of-town pool. Safe travels across the pond.
And the WH sends this along:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from JBA, where the Air & Space Expo is underway (pool can see the crowd a ways down the tarmac).
Marine One touched down at 10:17 a.m. and rolled to a stop a minute later in the usual spot.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped down and walked across the tarmac (greeter info below). Both are wearing navy blue Air Force One jackets, which the WH said is to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the Air Force tomorrow.
They waved to the pool and boarded using the main steps at 10:23 after a short pause to glance up the tarmac at the air show.
Staff followed up the front steps after, including Jake Sullivan (in blue jeans). Full list below.
We will be wheels up momentarily for the United Kingdom and London's Stanstead Airport. Flight time is roughly six hours.
Additionally, the WH confirms that the meeting with Prime Minister Liz Truss will not take place this weekend in the UK but next week in NYC: "The President will hold a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Truss on Wednesday in New York when both are attending UNGA."
From the WH:
AF1 was wheels up from JBA at 10:32 a.m. EDT and wheels down at Stanstead Airport on the outskirts of London at 9:59 p.m. local.
Smooth, uneventful flight with no visitors to the press cabin.
Taxiing now, more TK.
POTUS, now wearing a suit and tie, and FLOTUS, in a black overcoat and heels, stepped off AF1 at 10:12 p.m. local time and descended via the main stairs. They chatted with the greeters for a moment and then got into the Beast at 10:15.
We are motorcading to the RON in central London, which will be about an hour ride.  Rolling at 10:18.
From the WH:
The pool van got separated from the motorcade just before 11 p.m somewhere in northeast London when the driver lagged too far behind. Unfortunate!
So we will not be tailing POTUS to the RON and are proceeding to the press RON. We will get word when he's arrived and pass that along soon.
As the press van snaked it's way through King's Cross, at 11:28 p.m., we were informed by our wrangler that POTUS and FLOTUS have made it to the RON.
And we have a travel/photo lid.