Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
This is your pooler checking in.
The White House has moved the preset time for the president's remarks in the Rose Garden to 11:30 a.m.
The press briefing will now start at 12:20 p.m. per the WH
The briefing will be live streamed via the following link:
The White House passed a two minute warning for the press briefing at 12:25 p.m.
The briefing will be live streamed via the following link:
The press briefing began at 12:33 p.m.
The briefing is being live streamed via the following link:
The White House has pushed the gather time for President Biden's remarks on health care costs in the Rose Garden to 1:10 p.m.
Press will gather at the Palm Room doors
President Biden is scheduled to speak at 1:15 p.m.
The president's remarks will live streamed via the following link:
The press briefing concluded at approximately 1:12 p.m.
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell offered remarks on the federal preparations for Hurricane Ian at the top of the briefing and took questions until approximately 12:54 p.m.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre then offered brief remarks and took questions for the remainder of the briefing.
The briefing was live streamed via the following link:
Press is now moving Rose Garden for President Biden's remarks live streamed here:
The White House passed a 2 min warning for President Biden's remarks in the Rose Garden at 1:22 p.m.
President Biden entered the Rose Garden at 1:25 p.m.
He was introduced by Bob Parant, a Medicare beneficiary, and began his remarks at 1:29 p.m.
In attendance for the President's remarks:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Chair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic Advisers
Senator Ron Wyden (OR)
Health care stakeholders, community advocates, military families, and members of the Administration
Run of Show:
Bob Parant, Introducer and Medicare beneficiary with type 1 diabetes
The event is being live streamed here:
Per the WH, Sen. Wyden is not in attendance for President Biden's remarks in the Rose Garden.
Please see updated list of attendees below:
In attendance for the President's remarks:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Chair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic Advisers
Health care stakeholders, community advocates, military families, and members of the Administration
President Biden concluded his remarks in the Rose Garden at 1:49 p.m.
Upon conclusion Mr. Biden made his way through the crowd to shake hands speak with several attendees.
He did not take questions from the press.
The president mingled for approximately 13 minutes before entering the Oval Office at 2:02 p.m.
His remarks were live streamed via the following link:
The White House called a lid for the day at 2:37 p.m.