Pool Reports by 
, 
Having come off the bench to pinch hit this morning as the print pooler, checking in from a seasonably chilly White House.
Pool has been tested and is awaiting the departure to Fort McNair, where we will bid the president adieu and hand it off to the travel pool for his trip to Delaware.
 
:
The pool has loaded into the vans as we await the president.
We have departed the White House en route to Fort McNair. First time for me departing in a motorcade lined up on Pennsylvania Avenue NW.
Did not see the president before departure.
After an uneventful trip that took us past Nationals Park and Audi Field, we've arrived at Fort McNair
The president boarded the helicopter without coming over to talk to the press. Took off at 9:28am
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
And turning it over to the travel pool.
Happy New Year for those who will celebrate Rosh Hashanah beginning tomorrow night.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from DANG. POTUS touched down at 10:19am. Pool arrived earlier via Osprey.
The president was with the First Lady, he stopped to shake hands with an officer but didn't come over to talk to the press.
The motorcade is rolling at 10:26.
The motorcade arrived at the Biden residence at 10:37am.
Pool rejoined the president's motorcade outside his residence at 11:01am.
The motorcade arrived at 11:09am at Sanford School where we are told POTUS is attending his granddaughter's game. It appeared to be field hockey.
Pool is holding at a market down the road.
We joined the motorcade at 12:22pm.
We dropped POTUS off at his residence at 12:29pm.
Lunch lid until 3:10pm.
The pool joined the motorcade outside the Biden residence at 5:01pm.
Pool arrived at St. Joseph on the Brandywine at 5:04 and briefly saw POTUS walking in. He appeared to be alone.
We're holding in front of the church.
POTUS exited the church at 5:55pm. We are rolling.
The motorcade arrived back at the Biden residence at 6:02.
We have a lid. Good night!
From the WH:
Tonight, in a pre-recorded video, the President and First Lady will address the Global Citizen Festival, where protecting the planet will be a major theme. They will thank the climate advocates who helped them secure the historic climate victory through the Inflation Reduction Act, and highlight how the law's historic clean energy investments will help tackle the climate crisis and lower energy costs. They will also encourage attendees to continue driving the fight against climate change, especially with the new tools we've now secured thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act.
The video will be live-steamed tonight at the festival, and will air tomorrow night on ABC when the network broadcasts the Global Citizen Festival.
From the WH:
The President's trip to Florida on September 27th will be postponed due to Tropical Storm Ian.