Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington, it's 57 degrees and sunny. Pool has been swept and is gathered near the Biden residence.
POTUS is returning to Washington this morning. His departure is scheduled for 9:25am. Here's the full schedule:
 
 
 
 
 
The motorcade pulled away from the Biden residence at 9:19am.
The motorcade arrived on the tarmac at 9:27am. Pool was stationed too far away for shouted questions. We didn't see Marine One lift off as we were ushered to our Osprey. Will be taking off shortly.
From the WH:
Motorcading with the President en route Delaware Air National Guard Base and Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Fort Lesley J. McNair:
Handing off to in-town pool. Thanks all!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Taking the hand-off from out of town pooler Aishvarya Kavi, who just reported POTUS' departure from Wilmington.
Greetings from Washington on a sunny, clear blue-skied Monday, where the White House this morning is scheduled to welcome the Atlanta Braves.
The in-town pool arrived a bit ago to Ft McNair to meet POTUS as he returns from Wilmington. He's scheduled here for a 10:25am arrival, and appears close to on schedule.
This should be in your inbox but for those who need a reminder of what your day, and mine — and POTUS' — have in store.
 
 
 
 
 
Marine One landed at Ft McNair, on a large patch of grass with the National War College in the background, at 10:27am
POTUS walked across the grass, briefly nodding toward the pool nearby but not coming over to talk, before getting into the Beast.
According to the WH, greeting the President on arrival at Fort Lesley J. McNair:
We are now rolling back to the White House, where the Atlanta Braves await.
POTUS arrived at the White House at 10:44am, after a brief 10-minute motorcade from Ft McNair. A few onlookers along the way waving and taking photos, and a few holding signs as the motorcade pulled into the White House that read: "Bring Ridge Home"
Upon arrival, pool could see at a distance as POTUS walked to the Oval Office.
According to the White House, motorcading with the President en route the White House:
WH advises that the press briefing, originally slated for 1:30pm, will now start 15 minutes earlier, at 1:15pm.
We have gathered in a packed East Room, where POTUS is soon expected to honor the Atlanta Braves, winners of the 2021 World Series.
Light jazz was playing when we arrived, and the Commissioner's Trophy was on a table at the front. A jersey — which, given past events, may be one given to POTUS by the team — is folded on a second table.
Event is streaming, so feel free to follow along and pool will send along any highlights.
POTUS began with a joke about FLOTUS and her allegiance to the Philadelphia Phillies – and laughed that he couldn't be too nice to the team. He remarked on their improbable comebacks and alluded to his political career and own comebacks. "I know something about being counted out," he said.
At the end he was presented with a custom jersey with his name on the back and number 46.
According to the WH, attendees included players, owners, executives and staff, as well as state and local elected leaders:
Your pooler also spotted Kate Bedingfield, Georgia native and White House communications director, sporting a Braves cap in the back of the room.
Former Atlanta Keisha Lance Bottoms, who now oversees the White House Office of Public Engagement, was also mentioned as being in attendance, and helping to put together the event.
POTUS was accompanied into the room by Terry McGuirk, Chairman and CEO of the Atlanta Braves. They were preceded by the team, who came in and stood on rises. The list of players, according to the WH, included:
At the conclusion of the event, around 12:20pm, POTUS invited the team to a reception.
It's available in all your normal viewing venues.
We have a lunch lid until 3:30pm, which ends just ahead of POTUS remarks at the meeting of the White House Competition Council. Those remarks, which at the moment are the last item on the public schedule, are expected at 4:15pm.
Pool has gathered for what is expected to be a brief pool spray as POTUS gives remarks at the top of the White House Competition Council Meeting.
The pool was in the State Dining room for about 12 minutes as POTUS delivered remarks about efforts to increase competition and attempt to lower fees for consumers.
He ignored repeated questions on various topics at the end, as wranglers attempted to get reporters to leave. Some reporters were pushed as the wranglers tried to stifle their questions and get them out of the room.
When we arrived, POTUS was at the center of the table, with administration officials all around (more on attendees below). He made sure the pool was set, thanked his team ("I know a few folks were unable to join us today because of Rosh Hashanah and I'd like to wish a happy holiday to all those who are celebrating"), and then spoke to "a moment of global uncertainty. Countries around the world are grappling with elevated inflation, the ongoing war in Ukraine is presenting challenges."
"The United States of America is in stronger position than any other country to navigate these global challenges," he said. "Period."
POTUS coughed a number of times through his remarks, at one point saying, "Excuse me for the cold."
He talked about how his primary focus is lowering prices and easing the financial burden on middle class families, and he touted how gas prices had gone down, and had a message for gas companies: "My message is simple…Bring down the prices you're charging at the pump. Do it now…Not a month from now, do it now."
He said that he was tasking his council to come up with ways to encourage competition and lower fees. He focused in particular on various fees, citing overdraft fees from banks and termination fees from cell phone companies. "This council is going to come back to me...with a plan for eliminating and reducing fees. Families shouldn't have to pay these fees," he said.
He also discussed airline fees, and some of the success in getting airlines to change policies as a result of public pressure from Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg.
"They cancel on you and you have to pay a fee to rebook. C'mon man," Biden said. "No really. It's simply not fair. It's not fair."
He said new rules from the Department of Transportation would get airlines to disclose the fees up front, including fees for sitting next to your child or baggage fees, so that customers can have fuller knowledge when making decisions.
"Capitalism without competition isn't capitalism," he said toward the end of his remarks. "It's exploitation. And we're building an economy that works for everyone."
Via the WH, in attendance for the White House Competition Council Meeting:
We have a lid from the WH for the day.
Enjoy the evening!