Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello! I'm your print pooler for the day. POTUS has two public events on the sched today (including the Elton John concert!):
Pool gathering to leave for DNC event.
Motorcade rolling at 12:44 pm for DNC event at NEA.
Motorcade arrived at the NEA at 12:47 pm.
FYI since this is a political event, remarks won't be live-streamed on the WH website but should be on CSPAN
Also, per WH:
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route National Education Association Headquarters:
POTUS started speaking to a packed auditorium at 1:07 pm.
(Sorry didn't get a 2 min warning)
It's an open DNC event so won't send everything but will send a few quotes.
Before he began, the crowd chanted "Biden" "Union" "Strong." An NEA member introduced Biden and spoke about student debt relief, abortion and an assault weapons ban.
Some watched from a balcony behind a railing that was covered in handmade pro-Biden signs.
He spoke for roughly 35 mins. Pool ushered out 1:36 pm. Crowd chanted "Joe" as he wrapped.
No major news but he did respond to McCarthy's platform announced today. Please check against transcript. It was hard to hear in the room at times.
POTUS opened by listing issues that were on the ballot in November. "There's heck of a lot at stake," he said. He listed social security, gun control, "the survival of our planet" and "democracy itself."
He said the MAGA Republicans control the Republican Party.
Responded to McCarthys plan announced today, said "we didn't hear a mention of the right to choose" and then added social security.
Biden said Republicans would pass a ban on abortion if they won in Nov. "I will veto it," he said.
Biden said Justice Alito said the right to choose was in the hands of women. "He ain't seen nothing yet," he added.
He said Republicans want to put up every benefit, including social security, up for a vote every year.
He criticized McCarthy for saying Republicans wanted to keep America safe. "Every single Republican in Congress voted against it," he said of the ARP.
On Jan. 6, he said: "The MAGA republicans didn't side with law enforcement. They sided with insurrectionists."
He touted the economic progress under his administration, pointing to job creation including manufacturing jobs and new small business.
On inflation, he pointed to the global pandemic and Putin's war in Ukraine. And said the recently passed legislation which includes lowering prescription drug prices would give Americans some breathing room.
"When it actually comes to doing something about inflation, Republicans said no."
He criticized the tax plan under Trump and then whispered that Democrats "brought down the deficit." "So I don't want to hear from Republicans"
Biden said "thanks to" the deficit reduction, he was able to cancel some student loans. "its a game changer."
He said that not accepting the results of the 2020 presidential election has "become a litmus test" for republicans pledging their loyalty to Trump.
"You can't love your country only when you win," he said.
The backdrop behind POTUS said: "Building a Better America"
Motorcade rolling back to the WH at 2:04 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the WH at 2:07 pm.
We drove past a pretty lively immigration rally that had signs for TPS. Lots of people were gathered on street corners through our drive downtown to see the motorcade.
Per WH, briefing will now start at 2:45 pm.
Two min warning for briefing called at 2:48 pm.
Press briefing ended at 3:44 pm
We have a dinner lid until 7:20 pm
Pool gathering for the concert at 7:21 pm
Pool is now in the south lawn, where there are supposed to be about 2,000 people tonight.
Many are already seated under a tent. Others are still streaming in. A screen, which currently reads "A Night When Hope And History Rhyme," is set up on one side.
POTUS is scheduled to give remarks around 8 pm.
Lot of info here from the WH:
The President and First Lady are hosting a musical performance by music legend and global humanitarian, Sir Elton John, on the South Lawn of the White House this evening, September 23, 2022. In collaboration with A+E Networks and The History Channel, the event, titled "A Night When Hope and History Rhyme," will celebrate the unifying and healing power of music, commend the life and work of Sir Elton John, and honor the everyday history-makers in the audience, including teachers, nurses, frontline workers, military families, mental health advocates, students, LGBTQ+ advocates and more.
Tonight's performance has been organized in collaboration with, and is being paid for by, A+E Networks and The History Channel.
WH gave a "long 2 min" warning to POTUS remarks at 8:18 pm.
Dr. Biden speaking now.
Biden started speaking at 8:24 pm. His remarks were live-streamed. No news.
He wrapped at 8:28 pm.
A video now rolling with people talking about Elton John and his impact. Concert to follow.
Sir Elton John began with some quick remarks at 8:36 pm. Music followed. Opening track was "Your Song," then "Tiny Dancer," "Rocketman," "Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me," "Crocodile Rock." He closed with "I'm Still Standing."
Wrapped at 9:15 pm.
Biden then went up on stage and announced he was giving Elton John the National humanities medal. "I'm never flabbergasted but I'm flabbergasted," John said. He got teary while thanking the president.
The Bidens then waved and left the stage.
During the concert, the crowd stood up and clapped and cheered after every song. Pool was too far back to have an eye on POTUS during the concert.
Elton John spoke about AIDS funding in between songs and ending AIDS by 2030. He thanked former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush (who was in attendance) for their work on the issue and recalled a story in which he talked to Bush backstage at an event who told him he needed the French "to give more (F-ing) money."
"I just wish America could be more bipartisan,"he said.
WH called a lid at 9:48 pm.
Have a good weekend!