Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order to implement the semiconductor funding in the bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act of 2022. This legislation will lower the costs of goods, create high paying manufacturing jobs around the country, and ensure we make more critical technologies at home. This law builds on more than a year of work from the Biden-Harris Administration to respond to acute semiconductor shortages and build more resilient semiconductor supply chains. The historic funding and incentives in the CHIPS Act will help rebuild our supply chains, manufacturing, and infrastructure here at home, along with crucial invests from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act.
This Executive Order reflects the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to quickly increase production of semiconductors, strengthen research and design leadership, and grow a diverse semiconductor workforce to give the country a competitive edge on the world stage.
Additionally, to ensure transparent and effective communication about CHIPS Act programs, the Department of Commerce launched CHIPS.gov, a central resource for stakeholders and interested parties on the $50 billion in manufacturing and research and development funds available through the Department of Commerce.
To coordinate effective implementation of the CHIPS Act across the Administration, the Executive Order establishes an interagency CHIPS Implementation Steering Council. The Steering Council will be co-chaired by National Economic Director Brian Deese, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, and the Acting Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, Alondra Nelson. Other members of the Steering Council will include:
The Executive Order establishes six primary priorities to guide implementation across the federal government:
Today, the Department of Commerce launched CHIPS.gov, which will be an essential channel through which the Department communicates with the public about CHIPS Program initiatives. The Department of Commerce is committed to deploying funding as swiftly as possible, while also ensuring the time needed to perform necessary due diligence. CHIPS.gov will be a central resource for all information related to the implementation of the CHIPS and Science Act, and will provide information about Departmental priorities, funding opportunities, timelines, requirements and more as the information becomes available.