Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Lewes, Del.,
The pool is gathered in a van outside the Sleep Inn and Suites. It's a sunny 74 degrees.
We will soon be heading out to catch Biden's departure from Rehoboth Beach, Del. back to the White House.
There have been no changes to the president's schedule. It remains:
The pool van pulled out of the hotel at 8:44 a.m. ET en route to Gordon's Pond, where POTUS will depart via Marine One back to the White House. His departure time is scheduled for 10 a.m.
The pool is gathered under a picnic shelter at Gordon's Pond in Rehoboth Beach, Del. awaiting President Biden's arrival for departure. He's scheduled to depart at 10 am ET.
The presidential motorcade pulled up to Gordon's pond at 9:52 am. The president — wearing a black mask, suit and tie — exited the beast at entered Marine One at 9:53 am.
Biden did not take questions from reporters, who were positioned about 75 to 100 yards away and separated by brush.
Marine One lifted at 9:57 am ET. Biden is scheduled to arrive at the White House at 10:55 am.
From the White House:
I will now be handing off to your in-town pool reporter.

Have a great day!
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Press is gathering at the Palm Room doors in advance of Biden's return to the White House. His South Lawn arrival is open press.
Marine One landed on the South Lawn of the White House at 10:54 a.m.
POTUS emerged shortly thereafter, into the bright sunshine, at 10:58 a.m.
POTUS wore a black mask that he promptly removed,
He walked over to staff waiting there to greet him. He fist bumped or shook hands and briefly chatted with several people. Pool was too far away to hear anything.
POTUS waved to the pool before entering the White House but took no questions.
Passing along this COVID test result from the White House: 
Also, flagging today's schedule change for anyone who hasn't seen.
In the afternoon, the President will deliver remarks. These remarks in the Roosevelt Room will be covered by the in-house pool.
We have a lunch lid until 2 p.m.
From a White House Official: 
On passing: 
The pool is heading shortly to the Roosevelt Room, where President Biden will make remarks on student debt.
The remarks will be livestreamed at 
 so quotes via pool report will be limited.
POTUS began speaking at 2:46 pm. His prepared remarks ended at 3:06 pm.
He was accompanied by Education Secretary Cardona.
POTUS recounted how his father was ashamed that he couldn't borrow the money for Biden's college education. Biden said his father believed, as he does, that education is the ticket to a better way of life. But over time that ticket has become too expensive.
He said the debt burden is particularly hard on Black & Hispanic borrowers.
"Now it's time to address the burden of student debt," he said.
Biden said his actions honor his campaign promises.
"All this means people can finally start crawling out of that mountain of debt," he said. "When this happens, the whole economy is better off."
He said the changes provide real benefits for families without a meaningful effect on inflation.
"It's a game changer," he said of permanent changes to loan programs.
He said the administration will hold colleges accountable for jacking up costs.
"Our goal is to shine a light on the worst actors," he said.
Some will think his plan is too much & others will think it's not enough, he said. "I believe my plan is responsible & fair…will fix a badly broken system," he said.
He said he will continue to fight for doubling pell grants.
Biden took 2 questions:
On the FBI search of Mar-Lago, he said: "I didn't have any advance notice."
On whether the loan forgiveness is fair, he responded by asking if it's fair for the wealthy to get big tax breaks.
Please check against transcript and/or video.
After listening back to the recording, here are fuller quotes on the QA, but please check the second answer against the transcript.
Q. How much advance notice did you have of the FBI's plan to search Mar-a-Lago?
Biden: "I didn't have any advance notice. None. Zero. Not one single bit."
Q. Is this unfair to people who paid their student loans or chose not to take out loans?
Biden: "Is it fair to people who in fact do not own multi-billion dollar businesses to see one of these guys getting all of the tax breaks? Is that fair? What do you think?"
Q. What about people who struggled to paid their loans and now others don't have to?
(No response)
At 3:38 p.m., we have a 2-minute warning.
The briefing ended at 4:46 p.m.
A lid was called at 5:16 p.m.