Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon,
Per White House press aide: "This morning, President Biden called Mayor Chokwe Lumumba of Jackson, Mississippi, to hear firsthand from the Mayor about the urgent situation with access to clean and safe water. They discussed emergency response efforts underway, including support from FEMA, EPA and the Army Corps, and the President expressed his determination to provide Federal support to address the immediate crisis and the longer term effort to rebuild Jackson's water infrastructure."
The press briefing is at 2:45pm ET. It will be livestreamed here: 
Please reach out with any questions.
President Biden unexpectedly popped his head into the First Lady’s meeting on education in Roosevelt Room hosted by the White House Domestic Policy Council.
The event was focused on the administration's efforts to strengthen the teaching profession and support schools in their effort to address teacher shortages as the new school year begins.
Ahead of the event, the White House released this Fact Sheet: 
Background on that event from the FLOTUS pool:
This morning, the Biden-Harris Administration announced new efforts to strengthen the teaching profession and support schools in their effort to address teacher shortages as the new school year begins. Those efforts are outlined in the fact sheet 
, and include the following:
As part of this announcement, First Lady Jill Biden will participate in a Roosevelt Room meeting hosted by the White House Domestic Policy Council to outline these new public and private sector actions and discuss strategies to address the teacher shortage in the short and long term. This meeting will include the following participants:
More details: President Biden poked his head into the Roosevelt Room meeting with DPC, FLOTUS Secretary Cardona and Secretary Walsh, and said, "Whatever she says, I agree with." (referencing FLOTUS)
WH Press briefing starting now.
Was pushed back from 2:45pm ET start time.
We have a lid at the White House. It is 4:10pm ET.
Have a good evening!