 I haven't seen the report on Mar-a-Lago, so I'm not commenting. I haven't seen it, number one. But I do want to say we had a great economic report today.
Last month, minus-1 inflation. Not up, not—down. Actually down. The economy is looking good. So far, we're hanging in, and I feel good about it. But we've got a long way to go.
Is it possible that——
Mr. President, if only 75 percent of the people take advantage of the student loan program—do you consider it a success if only 75 percent of the people take advantage of it?
 I'll consider it a success if only 10 percent take advantage of it. Look, people need help. And by the way, the end result of this is—as I've met with everyone from the former Secretary of Treasury to everyone else—this is not going to cause inflation, number one.
Number two, it would generate economic growth—the opposite—because you've got people who are, in fact, now going to be freed up to be able to go borrow money to buy a home, to be able to start businesses, to do the things that need to be done.
And I found it absolutely fascinating that some of the folks who were talking about "this is big spending" are the same people that got $158,000 in PPP money, including the—what's her name? That woman who believes in the—anyway. A whole lot of Republicans got a lot of money, the very people criticizing it.
So it's just not—I think it's a good Education : Postsecondary education :: Federal student loans, partial forgiveness thing, it frees a lot of people up, it's going to grow the economy. We still have a way to go, but I'm optimistic.
Mr. President, have you spoken to any of the family members of the 13 soldiers who died last year in Afghanistan?
 Not today, but I have spoken in the past.
President Trump says that he declassified all these documents. Could he have just declassified them all?
 "Well, I just want to know, I've declassified everything in the world. I'm President. I can do it"—come on. Declassified everything?
Mr. President——
I'm not going to comment. I mean, because I don't know the detail. I don't even want to know. I'll let the Justice Department take care of that.
 Mr. President, and the broad question——
 Questions may be coming up on the national security front. Do you need to be briefed on it?
Mr. President, in simple terms, is it ever appropriate for a President just to take home with them classified and top secret documents?
 Depending on the circumstance. For example, I have, in my home, a cabined-off space that is completely secure. I'm taking home with me today today's PDB. It's locked. I have a person with me—military with me. I read it, I lock it back up, and give it to the military.
Without a specialized area in which you can keep classified documents, is it ever appropriate for a President to bring classified and top secret documents home with them?
 It depends on the document, and it depends on how secure the—[
]. Thank you.
 "Semi-fascism"——
 Do you ever take classified——
What did you mean by "semi-fascism," sir?
 [
] You know what I mean.
Mr. President, Angola just had a typical election 2 days ago, and everything went good. What is the view of Mr. President? Because you recently announced $2 billion investment for Angola, which everybody is very excited. Your comment on that?
 That answers the question, doesn't it? You think we'd give $2 billion if we weren't excited about what happened?
Thank you.
 Mr. President, Mr. President——
Mr. President, how is the First Lady feeling? How's the First Lady feeling?
 She's still recovering.
 Is she still positive?