Corning, the largest U.S. manufacturer of fiber optic cable, announced Tuesday that "it will build a new manufacturing facility outside Phoenix in response to a spike in demand for fiber-optic cable as the U.S. government ramps up a 
…The new facility will bring investments in fiber and cable manufacturing to more than $500 million since 2020 and will help to double its capacity to serve the North American market."
Corning chairman and CEO Wendell Weeks told Axios, 'the largest and lowest cost manufacturing facilities for fiber in the world are located in the U.S., in North Carolina — and both belong to Corning.'"
Corning is not the only U.S. company making American investments in light of legislation by the Biden-Harris Administration. "AT&T also announced plans Tuesday to build a new fiber internet network in Mesa, Ariz., that will offer service to more than 100,000 homes in 2023. It's the company's first fiber network in the state."
Axios reporter Maragret McGill states, "building high-speed internet service to connect all Americans won't happen without the right equipment — and, thanks to the infrastructure funding law's 
, it will need to be largely U.S.-made."
Consistent with the 
, the Build America, Buy America provision in the 
 created new standards that strengthen Made in America requirements and help ensure that federally funded infrastructure projects use American-made iron, steel, construction materials, and manufactured products. The implementation of these provisions has already begun and will continue to help bolster the U.S. industrial base and supply chains, support American workers and firms, drive new investment, and support the creation of good-paying jobs.
[Margaret Harding McGill, 8/30/22]
Corning said Tuesday it will build a new manufacturing facility outside Phoenix in response to a spike in demand for fiber-optic cable as the U.S. government ramps up a 
.
Building high-speed internet service to connect all Americans won't happen without the right equipment — and, thanks to the infrastructure funding law's 
, it will need to be largely U.S.-made.
The fiber-optic cable factory will be built in Gilbert, Arizona. It's expected to open in 2024 and will add about 250 jobs.
Corning said the new facility brings investments in fiber and cable manufacturing to more than $500 million since 2020 and will help to double its capacity to serve the North American market.
Corning, the 170-year-old company best known for glass, is poised to get a big boost in broadband business. It's the largest U.S. manufacturer of fiber optic cable at a time when U.S. law requires providers to use domestic-made products to receive federal funding.
Broadband industry trade groups 
 from the Buy America rules, arguing "no combination of network products" will meet the requirements.
AT&T is focusing on a fiber-first strategy for its expansion plans, with a goal of reaching 30 million locations with fiber by 2025.