Pool Reports by 
, 
Greetings from the White House. The president is preparing to depart for Wilkes-Barre, Pa., where he will deliver remarks on public safety this afternoon. He is slated to return to Washington by 5:30. Updates on South Lawn departure forthcoming.
We are now gathering for the president's imminent South Lawn departure.
POTUS emerged from the West Wing at 12:41 pm, followed by several staffers.
Marine One wheels up was at 12:47 pm.
Photo here:
My colleagues in the travel pool will have you covered for the next portion of the day.
Accompanying the president on Marine One, according to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Because of inclement weather, pool is on its way to meet the president at JBA.
President Biden arrived at Joint Base Andrews and disembarked from Air Force One at 6:26 pm. Pool was told to remain in vans and was thus unable to ask the president any questions.
At 6:28 pm, the presidential motorcade departed JBA en route to the White House.
At 6:49 pm, the presidential motorcade returned to the White House.
Has been called. Have a good evening.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
M1 touched down at JBA and POTUS disembarked at 12:59 p.m. POTUS took his mask off briefly. He didn't respond to shouted questions about Mississippi.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 1:01 p.m.
We'll be wheels up shortly.
Below is today's schedule. You can catch the gaggle at: 
EDT
10:15 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE VICE PRESIDENT receive the President's Daily Briefing
Closed Press
11:25 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
Joint Base Andrews Overhang
11:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
12:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base Andrews
South Lawn (Gather 12:25 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Open Press
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Pool
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport, Avoca, Pennsylvania
Open Press
3:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his Safer America Plan to further reduce gun crime and save lives
Marts Center at Wilkes University
Open Press
4:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania en route Joint Base Andrews
Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport, Avoca, Pennsylvania
Open Press
5:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base Andrews
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Pool
5:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House
South Lawn (Gather 5:30 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Open Press
Briefing Schedule
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Wheels up at JBA at 1:12 p.m. Wheels down at AVP at 1.50 p.m.
WH press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled on the flight for 16 minutes.
Pool spotted CNN playing in the main cabin.
From the WH:
Greeting the President at Joint Base Andrews on arrival:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling on Air Force One en route Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Stefanie Feldman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Domestic Policy Advisor
Ryan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & Advance
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
Sheila Grant, Special Assitant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
POTUS deplaned at 2:01 p.m. onto a rain slicked tarmac. It started to drizzle as he disembarked, before the downpour increased as pool scurried to the waiting vans.
The drive to Marts Center at Wilkes University is about 20 minutes.
From the WH:
Greeting the President at Wilkes-Barre Scranton International Airport on arrival:
Bob Casey, U.S. Senator (PA)
Tom Wolf, Governor (PA)
George Brown, Mayor of Wilkes-Barre
Paige Cognetti, Mayor of Scranton
Kendra Radle, Chair of Luzerne County Council
Jerry Notarianni, Lackawanna County Commissioner
Pool arrived at the Marts Center at 2:28 p.m. and is holding in the vans.
Locals were seen taking photos or video of the motorcade along the route. There was at least one small group of Trump supporters, one fan bearing a "Let's Go Brandon" sign, near a stall selling Trump merchandise, such as "Miss me yet?" flags.
Pool was ushered into the Mart's Center at roughly 2:30 p.m.
Gov. Tom Wolf started speaking after the U S. Marine Band played the national anthem.
It can be live-streamed here:
Two-minute warning was given at 3:33 p.m.
The banners emblazoned with the "Safer America" slogan and the silhouette of police officers have been placed to the left and right of the stage. Biden is framed by audience members holding signs with the same phrase, as is the podium from which he is speaking. The scoreboard also seems to be set at 46-46, a reference to POTUS, and the timer to 20:22, alluding to the year.
AG Josh Shapiro received a warm round of applause amid his high-profile gubernatorial campaign.
From the WH:
Participating in a photo line with the President at the Arnaud C. Marts Center:
Jerry Notarianni, Lackawanna County Commissioner
Kendra Radle, Chair of Luzerne County Council
Tom Wolf, Governor (PA)
Josh Shapiro, Attorney General of Pennsylvania (PA)
Matt Cartwright, U.S. Congressman (PA-08)
Bob Casey, U.S. Senator (PA)
Paige Cognetti, Mayor of Scranton
George Brown, Mayor of Wilkes-Barre
Also from the WH:
In attendance for the President's remarks:
536 attendees including local elected officials,
Wilkes University guests, gun safety representatives, and law enforcement
Mayor Paige Cognetti of Scranton.
Mayor George Brown of Wilkes-Barre
The President
POTUS started speaking at 3:37 p.m.
POTUS concluded at 4:12 p.m.
POTUS' remark about how Republicans can't claim to be pro-police without condemning the events of Jan. 6 received a standing ovation. Most of the crowd remained standing from then on until the end of his speech.
He is now working the rope line. One sole audience member shouted "Let's go, Joe!" before being drowned out by the band.
Pool was ushered out of the gymnasium at 4:51 p.m., leaving POTUS still working the rope line.
A group of women wearing red Moms Demand Action t-shirts were among those gathered behind the barrier. They were later huddled together with other attendees for a photograph with POTUS.
An announcer tried to whittle down the crowd still hoping to chat with POTUS or snap a presidential selfie by repeating three times he needed to go "due to inclement weather."
Pool is rolling to AVP.
Pool arrived at AVP at 5:22 p.m., passing one woman waving a "Thank you for keeping PA safe sign" along the way.
POTUS boarded AF1 at roughly 5:23 p.m.
Was asked about Gorbachev:
"I just found out about it."
We'll be wheels up shortly.
Resending just in case.
Pool arrived at AVP at roughly 5:22 p.m., passing one woman waving a "Thank you for keeping PA safe sign" along the way.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 5:23 p.m.
Was asked about Gorbachev:
"I just found out about it."
We'll be wheels up shortly.
Wheels up at 5:36 p.m. Wheels down at 6:17 p.m.
POTUS deplaned at 6:26 p.m. He didn't respond to shouted questions about Mississippi.
With the wet weather call, I'm handing coverage back over to the in-town pool.