Despite what critics may say, those who stand to benefit most from the student debt relief plan announced last week aren't "latte-sipping elites," write Axios Market journalist, Emily Peck.
In fact, "nearly 90% of those benefiting from the policy earn less than $75,000, according to the 
."
This policy will greatly impact those who are disproportionately burdened with student loan debt such as 
, 
, and 
 borrowers. According to the American Association of University Women, "women hold two-thirds of the student loan debt in the U.S. — with Black women holding the most."
Peck also points out, "a significant percentage of student loan debtors didn't get a four-year degree." According to data analyzed by a labor economist at the Upjohn Institute, Aaron Sojourner, 34% of borrowers have "debt but no degree" and an estimated "11% graduated from a two-year program; and 10% received a professional certificate, like from a trade school."
The bottom line is, "student debt relief will mainly serve those who could use the help."
[Emily Peck, 8/26/2022]
Despite what critics may say, student loan debtors who stand to benefit most from the relief plan announced last week aren't exactly latte-sipping elites.
 First, nearly 90% of those benefiting from the policy earn less than $75,000, according to the 
. Second, a significant percentage of student loan debtors didn't get a four-year degree. That means they also don't get the income boost of a bachelor's degree.
 Sojourner looked at data for those who borrowed money and started college in 2011. He found that after six years, a majority didn't have a bachelor's:
 
 little brothers and sisters have what they need for school," Gabrielle Perry, a 29-year-old African American woman 
. "You are helping your parents pay off their rent, their house. So your quote-unquote wealth doesn't even have time to be built because you're trying to help your family survive."
 
 
Women hold two-thirds of the student loan debt in the U.S., according to a widely cited estimate from the American Association of University Women (AAUW)— with Black women holding the most.
 
 
Of course, those who didn't go to college at all are still left out of this plan, and don't stand to benefit at all.
 
 The two-plus years of the student loan moratorium did benefit a lot of higher-income folks, but the policy announced last week by the Biden administration will mainly serve those who could use the help.