Pool Reports by 
, 




Hi all,

Will still be the VP pool reporter today during two events in Oakland. Pool left Fairmont Hotel at 9:45 am with the motorcade. More information to come once we get to the first event at an estimated 10:15 am, but here's what's on the agenda, per VP office:

First event:

 – Vice President Kamala Harris will visit her hometown of Oakland, California on Friday, August 12 to join Mayor Libby Schaaf, Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Promise, and hundreds of supporters as they launch Oakland's "The Generation Fund" – a $50 million quasi-endowment that will support every low-income public-school student and baby born into poverty through the year 2035.

In all, the Generation Fund will serve more than 30,000 Oakland students for the next generation. Led by Mayor Schaaf, the community-raised Generation Fund includes close partnership with OUSD and hundreds of local and regional donors committed to breaking the cycle of poverty by increasing college access and completion for Oakland's most underserved residents.

Second event:

.

 On Friday, August 12, Vice President Harris will visit the Chabot Space & Science Center in Oakland, California. There, she will hear from U.S. space companies about their latest innovations and deliver remarks on how to expand America's robust space industry and economy. In her remarks, Vice President Harris will announce the date of the second National Space Council meeting.

During a tour, private sector leaders will illustrate some of the challenges and opportunities in the U.S. space industry. Some companies, like those using technology to observe earth from space, will demonstrate how technology developments are outpacing our existing regulatory frameworks; others have operations that fall outside of those frameworks, such as companies performing novel activities like servicing satellites on orbit. Other companies, like those helping to build commercial space stations, will highlight the evolution of the relationship between the U.S. Government and the industry, and how leveraging the private sector's unique resources and expertise has propelled the industry forward.

Following the tour, the Vice President will deliver remarks outlining the space industry's rapidly developing capabilities, the benefits to our quality of life, and ways the Administration is fostering a burgeoning and globally competitive U.S. commercial space sector. The Vice President will also highlight how the United States Space Priorities Framework commits to addressing challenges and opportunities in the space economy. Her remarks will be livestreamed at 
.

Friday's event will build on the Vice President's leadership as Chair of the National Space Council in underscoring the critical importance of American leadership in strengthening rules-based governance of space activities. The Vice President's visit to the Chabot Space & Science Center illustrates the Administration's commitment to ensuring U.S. cutting edge commercial space technologies continue to make life better on Earth.

The Vice President will be joined by representatives of the Department of Commerce, Department of Transportation, and Federal Communications Commission.



 The Artemis Accords are a set of norms and principles that promote values-based cooperation and encourage responsible and safe behavior in space. In her engagements with foreign leaders, the Vice President regularly raises space issues, advances our cooperation on space issues with allies and partners, and has rallied countries to establish rules and norms for responsible behavior in space.

 The National Space Council (NSpC) is the White House policy council responsible for ensuring the United States capitalizes on the rich opportunities presented by our nations' space activities. Under the leadership of its chair, Vice President Kamala Harris, the NSpC advises and assists the President on the development and implementation of space policy and strategy and is comprised of Cabinet-level Secretaries and other senior executive branch officials. More here: 


Pool left foggy San Francisco behind and arrived at Oakland Marriott City Center at 10:15. Both events today should be livestreamed at Whitehouse.gov, so pool report won't be as descriptive. First link:
.

A couple hundred people are already seated or milling about the room, where a large stage and a couple dozen chairs are set up. Plenty of Warriors pride in this room, with championship banners and pictures of the team over the years.



Vice President Kamala Harris is in Oakland, CA to join Mayor Libby Schaaf, Oakland Unified School District, Oakland Promise, and hundreds of supporters as they launch Oakland's "The Generation Fund" – a $50 million quasi-endowment that will support every low-income public-school student and baby born into poverty through the year 2035.

In all, the Generation Fund will serve more than 30,000 Oakland students for the next generation. Led by Mayor Schaaf, the community-raised Generation Fund includes close partnership with OUSD and hundreds of local and regional donors committed to breaking the cycle of poverty by increasing college access and completion for Oakland's most underserved residents.


Pool left first event around noon and arrived at the Chabot Space and Science Center in Oakland 12:15.

VP Harris and Gov. Gavin Newsom, who came up together in San Francisco politics, are now hearing from representatives of U.S. space companies about their technology. I attached some pics.

Background info pasted below:



Vice President Harris will visit the Chabot Space & Science Center in Oakland, California. There, she will hear from U.S. space companies about their latest innovations and deliver remarks on how to expand America’s robust space industry and economy. In her remarks, Vice President Harris will announce the date of the second National Space Council meeting.

During a tour, private sector leaders will illustrate some of the challenges and opportunities in the U.S. space industry. Some companies, like those using technology to observe earth from space, will demonstrate how technology developments are outpacing our existing regulatory frameworks; others have operations that fall outside of those frameworks, such as companies performing novel activities like servicing satellites on orbit. Other companies, like those helping to build commercial space stations, will highlight the evolution of the relationship between the U.S. Government and the industry, and how leveraging the private sector’s unique resources and expertise has propelled the industry forward. Participating companies include Capella, Maxar, Planet, Hawkeye 360, Northrop Grumman, SpaceX, Axiom, Nanoracks, Sierra Space.





Nearing the finish line for the day. After meeting with space industry leaders for about 40 minutes, VP Harris is about to make some remarks during an event on the observation deck of the science center. It’s a beautiful day in Oakland, nice and sunny. Here’s the livestream: 


Here’s the list of speakers:
