Pool Reports by 
, 




Just checking in. No updates to POTUS schedule today and the White House has not said how he’s spending his day.

Pool is holding in a house on Kiawah Island after spending the morning holding at a nearby shopping center. It’s 84 degrees and partly cloudy today. Rain and a possible thunder storm is in the forecast for this evening.

We haven’t seen the president today. 


The pool left our hold a little before 4 pm.

We loaded onto a bus, drove to another location on the island and were swept. The island is dotted with large vacation homes, palm trees and lots of Spanish moss.

After being swept by Secret Service, the pool lined up in the motorcade and waited for more than an hour. The motorcade began moving at 5:34 pm. Destination unknown.

Pool did not see POTUS.

It’s drizzling and overcast, with sporadic thunder and lightning.


The motorcade arrived at 5:42 at Turtle Point Golf Course. The pool is holding in the vans. A photographer spotted POTUS enter the building.

From the White House: "The President is participating in a taping for White House digital." We don't have any other details.

The motorcade ride was uneventful. The streets had few pedestrians, but we passed several lines of stopped cars along the route.

We drove by a sign on the side of the road that said "WARNING: Alligators."

Earlier, while we were waiting on the bus, the pool spotted something large moving in the water near where we were parked. It may have been an alligator, but we can't be sure.


POTUS exited the building outside the golf course where he did the taping at 5:52 pm, per photographers who spotted him. Motorcade was moving at 5:53 pm.

Pool was kept in our bus and could not shout any questions.


The press bus peeled off from the motorcade at 6 pm after another uneventful motorcade ride.

The pool has asked the White House where POTUS was during the vote and who he was with. Nothing yet.

The pool has not been anywhere near POTUS all day, so there has been no opportunity for shouted questions.


At 6:13 pm, we have a lid. Thanks all 


From the White House in response to pool's questions about what Biden was doing during the vote:

"The President video conferenced twice — once during the vote and once after the vote concluded — with staff who worked on the Inflation Reduction Act and who were gathered in the Roosevelt Room at the White House to thank them for their work and to celebrate the passage of the bill. Steve Ricchetti led a toast with staff.

Additionally, making sure you all saw that the President will sign the Inflation Reduction Act into law next week and hold a bigger celebration in September:

 