Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning from the White House, where the in-town pool and other credentialed media are gathering for the signing of the PACT Act in the East Room. The legislation will aid veterans exposed to toxins from burn pits.

The pool was tested this morning for COVID-19.

The event will be live-streamed, so your pooler will not send full quotes. You can watch it here: 
 


President Biden entered the East Room at 10:06 a.m.

There are a couple hundred people in the room. Your pooler spotted Speaker Pelosi, DHS Secretary Mayorkas, Jon Stewart, and HHS Secretary Becerra, among others, seated at the front of the room. Multiple attendees came up to hug Stewart before the event started. 


President Biden opened with remarks on the economy and the latest inflation data and called for passage of the Inflation Reduction Act in the House. He then began speaking about the PACT Act and thanking service members.

Passing along from the White House:











Biden thanked veterans for their service and advocates who fought for the legislation, as well as lawmakers from both parties who spearheaded the bill. He asked members of Congress in attendance to stand. He called the law "long overdue."

The president signed the legislation at 10:29 a.m. He then handed the pen to the daughter of Sgt First Class Heath Robinson, who the bill is named after.

The president mingled with attendees for several minutes, shaking hands and posing for photos. He departed the East Room at 10:43. 


The in-town pool is gathered and we will be motorcading to JBA for the president's departure to South Carolina.

Pool is told the bill signing this morning was originally going to be on the South Lawn. Pool did not see any set up for the event when we got into the motorcade. 


The president and First Lady exited the White House at 12:56 p.m. and got into their vehicle. The motorcade is rolling from the White House at 12:58 p.m. There were a couple dozen onlookers waving from the Rose Garden as we departed. 


Motorcade arrived at JBA at 1:19 p.m. after an uneventful drive. Handing off to the travel pool, and passing along this background from the White House:

Traveling with the President and the First Lady in the motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews: 
 Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
 Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
 Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary 


Pool Reports below by 
, 




AF1 touched down at Charleston Airforce Base at 2:40 p.m., after a slightly bumpy ride.

Biden deplaned at 2:51 p.m. and shook hands with a half dozen greeters.

He walked over and boarded M1. We are off via ospreys to Charleston airport.

From the White House, which came in after travel pool #1 went out:

Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Charleston Air Force Base, South Carolina

Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
 Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
 Josh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
 Chris Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary 


M1 touched down about 3:11 p.m. at Charleston Executive Airport and rolled to a stop. POTUS stepped off and into the waiting SUV. We are loaded in the press bus and rolling at 3:17 p.m. to the residence on Kiawah Island where the Bidens are staying. Pool has requested information on the home. 


A lid was called at 4:25 p.m. 