Pool Reports by 
, 




Good morning all,

I'll be covering pool today, call/text 513-904-3702 with any questions.

VPOTUS landed on AF2 at 10:29 am at Harry Reid International Airport. She was greeted on the tarmac by Rep. Steven Horsford (D, NV 4) at 10:42 am.

She then departed Reid at 10:46 am en route to the day's first event at the MGM Grand Conference Center's Marquee Ballroom, speaking at the United Steelworkers Convention, where she is expected to give remarks at about 11:15 am.












Pool arrived at MGM Grand Convention Center at 10:52 am for the 2022 Constitutional Convention of the United Steelworkers. VP Harris will speak just after 11:30 am. Reminder, livestream is available at 


VP Harris completed her remarks at 11:57am and the pool walked to the local lawmakers roundtable, also at MGM. Pool arrived at 12:06 pm. VP Harris is expected to speak at 1:15, also livestreamed.


Highlights from VP Harris speech to 2022 Constitutional Convention of the United Steelworkers.

She began with an anecdote from her childhood:

"As many of you know, I was born in Oakland, California. And when I was a child, my mother drove this yellow Dodge Dart. And I remember my sister and I would be sitting in the backseat driving up the 101 across the Golden Gate Bridge from time to time. And I remember as a child, staring in awe at the towers and at the sweeping cables of the Golden Gate Bridge, thinking, because I learned about its history, thinking, 'What a magnificent sight,' thinking as a child, 'Well if America could build that, we could build anything.' The Golden Gate Bridge is without question a monument to the potential of our country. And the Golden Gate Bridge was made with USW steel"

And went on to praise the labor movement:

"You helped make America the most powerful nation in the world."
"The strength of America is because of the workers of America, and the protection of the workers of America, and the recognition of the dignity of the work that those workers do."

Labor is entering a new era, expanding into new workforces like museum workers and tech workers, she said:

"A new era. an era in which workers of every age, every race, every gender, every profession have the opportunity to benefit from the power of solidarity."

"Everyone benefits from that work because when union wages are up, everybody's wages go up. When union workplaces are safer, all workplaces are safer. and when unions are strong, America is strong."

She then spoke about recent legislation passed: The CHIPS Act and the Inflation Reduction Act:

"It is clear that our nation is making progress. Now, we still know there is more work to be done."

On the IRA, to a standing ovation:

"Our nation's largest corporations will now start to pay their fair share"

She ended with a statement of labor advocacy:

"We are here together with determination and resilience to meet the challenges of the moment and to invest in the future of our nation. And we are guided by the spirit of this labor union and we are guided by the ambition of our nation to always push forward, to always fight for a more fair, more equal and more just future. America has a job to do, and to get it done, we need you. So please continue to do what you do so well. Continue to build coalitions of workers of all ages and races and backgrounds."


Roundtable with local lawmakers on reproductive rights began at about 12:50pm, live streamed at 
.

Background and participants below:



Today, August 10 at 1:15 PM PDT, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene Nevada state legislators to discuss the fight to protect reproductive health care. The event will be live streamed at 
.

Vice President Kamala Harris is coalescing leaders from across the nation who are on the frontlines fighting to protect a woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions. As part of that work, the Vice President has met with state legislators from 17 states to discuss protecting reproductive rights.





A participant on the panel not previously listed is Assemblywoman Rochelle Nguyen. Representatives from healthcare organizations and nonprofits, including Planned Parenthood, were also present.

The pool was asked to leave following the lawmakers' statements, at 1:15 pm, after which the roundtable continued.


Highlights from VP Harris speaking to Nevada lawmakers at a roundtable on abortion rights:

She began by discussing recent economic numbers. No July inflation, gas prices down, low unemployment. US economy recovered all jobs lost in pandemic:
"We are delivering for the American people."

Then addressed the Dobbs decision:
"The United States Supreme Court, with the Dobbs decision, took a constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of America. From the women of America."
"What we have seen around the country are extremist, so-called leaders passing laws to punish women, to criminalize healthcare providers."

She remarked on states which have laws which ban all abortion, even in cases of rape and incest, leaning on her experience as a prosecutor.

"The idea that laws would be passed, that after a person has endured such an act of violence, to not allow her to exercise the right to self-determination and allow her to make decisions about her body and her future, it's abhorrent."

She celebrated the recent vote in Kansas to keep abortion rights there.

"This is a nonpartisan issue. No matter who you voted for."
"Our nation was founded on certain fundamental principles including the principles of freedom and liberty."
"To stand for the proposition that the government should not interfere in the most intimate, private decision a person can make about their body and their future, to stand in support of that, does not require one to abandon their faith or their beliefs."

She warned about what rights may be under attack next based on Justice Clarence Thomas' written opinion:

"This. in many ways, sadly just may be the beginning. We have a Supreme Court Justice, his name is Clarence Thomas, who said the quiet part out loud. Talking about other fundamental rights that we thought were long-settled may be up for debate or even attack. Including the right to have access to contraception and same-sex marriage. So everyone is impacted by this decision."