

In the 21st century, access to affordable, high-speed internet is no longer a luxury: American families need high-quality internet to do their jobs, participate in school, access health care, and stay connected. But far too many Tribal communities remain unconnected: by one definition, over 30 percent of the population on Tribal lands do not have access to broadband infrastructure that provides minimally adequate speeds.

The Biden-Harris Administration has set a clear goal of bringing affordable, reliable, high-speed internet to every American. To help make this goal a reality, President Biden secured a historic $65 billion investment to expand internet access through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and has mobilized additional resources from across the federal government, including programs created by the American Rescue Plan.

These investments are already making a difference in Tribal communities, bringing new internet service to Native American, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian households and businesses. Through all of its work with Tribal communities, including broadband infrastructure programs, the Biden-Harris Administration is committed to honoring the Nation-to-Nation relationship with Tribal governments, conducting robust tribal consultation, and investing in the resilience and prosperity of Tribal communities.



This $1 billion from President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law will fund additional Tribal broadband applications already submitted to NTIA, bringing the total available under the funding opportunity announced in June 2021 to $1.98 billion. NTIA received more than 300 applications during the application window for over $5 billion in requested funding, demonstrating the significant infrastructure needs in Tribal communities. Making an additional $1 billion available under the current funding opportunity will allow the Department of Commerce to quickly allocate these funds to communities in need, without requiring Tribes to reapply.

This additional $1 billion at NTIA comes on top of other funding for high-speed internet available to Tribal communities—including $1 billion in funding currently available through the Department of Agriculture's Reconnect Program, as well as $100 million currently available through the Department of the Treasury's Capital Projects Fund.

But making internet available is not enough: families must be able to afford service and have the skills, technology, and capacity to take advantage of the opportunities that the internet offers. That's why the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $2.75 billion to promote 
, aiming to ensure that all people and communities can reap the full benefits of the digital economy.

, the first phase of the digital equity programs. In the coming months, the Department of Commerce will work with Tribes to submit applications and then award funds to Tribes to develop digital equity plans to help their communities adopt and use high-speed internet.

Moving forward, the Administration will continue to invest in internet access and digital equity for Tribal communities. NTIA will develop another opportunity to apply for funding under the Tribal Broadband Connectivity Program, and the Administration will coordinate resources across government to meet connectivity needs in Tribal communities. For example, 
's Bureau of Indian Affairs have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to coordinate responsibilities for ensuring compliance with environmental, historic preservation, and cultural resources requirements in the program, bringing additional expertise and coordination to efforts to increase Tribal connectivity.



Today's announcement is part of a government-wide effort to deliver high-speed internet infrastructure to Tribal communities, create more low-cost internet service options, and address digital equity and inclusion needs to ensure that Native American, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian families can take full advantage of the opportunities offered by internet service. Steps taken by the Administration in recent months include:

Households are eligible if they earn 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines or less (currently $55,500 for a family of four) or if they already participate in certain federal programs, including a wide range of Tribal assistance programs. Specifically, households participating in the following Tribal assistance programs are automatically eligible for ACP: Bureau of Indian Affairs General Assistance, Tribal Head Start (if the household meets the relevant income qualifying standard), Tribal Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, and the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.

While millions of households across the country have signed up to save, many more are eligible. 
 Moving forward, the Biden-Harris Administration will continue to take bold, concerted action to expand internet access and digital equity in Tribal communities.


The Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to Indian Country goes well beyond high-speed internet. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law makes a 
, as well as hundreds of billions of dollars that Tribes can apply for on a competitive basis. To date, more than $2.6 billion in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding has been announced and is headed to Tribal communities. This year alone, Tribes will receive more than $800 million in set aside funds for transportation to invest in roads, bridges, and public transit and over $150 million set aside for clean water. By the time implementation is complete, the law will have made the largest single investment in Tribal infrastructure ever in United States history.