Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Wilmington where the call time has been pushed back to 12:45.
Nothing further to report.
Lunch lid until 13:30.
Lid extended to 15:30
OK. Call time happened. Pool has loaded into a van. There is nothing on public schedule other than departure later but if I were a gambling man...
Weather is a very sunny 90F. Clear skies.
Pool van picked up motorcade at the top of the lane from POTUS residence at 17:01.
Rolling to unknown destination.
Motorcade pulled up at St Joseph on the Brandywine at 17:02. Pool was in van but could see POTUS dressed in light blue jacket and khaki trousers walking into church.
He didn't appear to arrive with family members.
Holding outside.
POTUS departed church at 17:48, and clasped hands with a green robed priest outside the door. They talked for a couple of minutes and POTUS had a beaming smile as he took his leave, speaking to a second priest just after.
In all he chatted for about four minutes, including to what looked like anotyer member of the congregation, before making his way to a black SUV.
He was unmasked throughout.
Motorcade rolling at 17:54.
Motorcade pulled into residence drive at 17:59, mleaving pool van to wait outside.
Departure for Rehoboth is the next thing on the guidance.
Motorcade rolling at 19:03. Headed for Brandywine Landing Zone. Pool van out of position. Wish us luck
Motorcade rolled into parking lot at Brandywine Creek State Park at 19:13. POTUS stepped straight on to Marine One. As far as pool could see he is traveling alone, dressed in same clothes as he was wearing at church.
Marine One wheels up at 19:18.
Handing off to supplementary pool at Rehoboth Beach.
Thank you to all my copoolers this past week. No one strangled anyone which I think is testament to something.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from Rehoboth Beach. I'll be your print pooler for this evening.
Marine One landed Gordon's Pond in Rehoboth at 8:03pm. We were positioned a good distance away and it was hard to see President Biden.
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One from Brandywine Landing Zone, Wilmington, DE en route to Gordon's Pond Landing Zone, Rehoboth Beach, DE:
The White House says that Biden arrived at his residence at 8:10pm.
We have a lid for the night.