On Thursday, Vice President Kamala Harris met with Governor Charlie Baker and Massachusetts leaders in Boston, Massachusetts to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights. At the roundtable, the Vice President reaffirmed the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to protecting access to reproductive health care, including abortion access, and encouraged legislators and leaders to continue fighting to protect reproductive rights in their state.
There were over 20 roundtable participants including Governor Baker, U.S. Department of Defense Undersecretary Gil Cisneros, Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley, State Representative Aaron Michlewitz, State Representative Kate Hogan, State Representative Liz Miranda, and Rebecca Holder, Executive Director of Reproductive Equity Now.
[Tal Kopan, 08/04/2022]
Fresh off a resounding victory for abortion rights in the reliably red state of Kansas two days prior, Vice President Kamala Harris held an event in Boston on Thursday to emphasize that Americans' views on the controversial issue cross party lines.
And to drive home the point, she had a Republican at her side.
Harris hailed Massachusetts as a "model" for the nation on the issue as Governor Charlie Baker, a pro-abortion rights Republican who later echoed her talking points, sat to her left.
"Governor, I appreciate the role, the national leadership that you have provided on this issue," Harris said to Baker as a phalanx of Democratic lawmakers and other officials flanked her at the IBEW Local 103 headquarters in Dorchester.
[Steph Solis, 08/04/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris joined forces with Massachusetts Republican Gov. Charlie Baker and the state's top Democrats to pitch abortion protections as a bipartisan issue. […]
This is the seventh state Harris has visited in recent weeks to discuss reproductive health care.
 Massachusetts has one of the strongest reproductive health laws in the country, and Harris' visit shows the White House's commitment to states reinforcing abortion protections.
"Our administration stands with the leaders who are here and with the women of America," Harris said Thursday. […]
[CBS Boston staff, 08/04/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris came to Boston Thursday afternoon and praised Massachusetts as a national leader when it comes to abortion rights.
"The work that is happening here in Massachusetts is a model of work that can and we believe should happen around the country," the vice president said.
Baker, a Republican, said abortion rights have not been a partisan issue in Massachusetts and that he was glad Harris came to town.
[Mary Markos, Matt Fortin and Wire reports, 08/04/2022]
Vice President Kamala Harris highlighted Massachusetts as a leader in the national fight to protect abortion rights during a round table discussion in Boston Thursday as part of a visit to the Bay State.
During the Vice President's meeting, Harris and several other leaders including Gov. Charlie Bake, U.S. Department of Defense Undersecretary Gil Cisneros and Representative Ayanna Pressley, discussed the significance of a women's right to make decisions about her reproductive health after the Supreme Court struck down the landmark Roe v. Wade decision.
"We are here today because we share a fundamental belief that we trust the women of America to make decisions about what is in their best interest," Harris said Thursday. "And we believe it is they who should make that decision and not their government. It is that simple."