Pool Reports by 
, 




Good Afternoon –

Pool gathered on an extremely humid pebble beach and walked over to the Executive Office Building at 2:56 pm.

Vice President Kamala Harris is scheduled to meet at 3:15pm with university presidents in her Ceremonial Office to discuss reproductive rights on US college campuses.

The VP's office passed along background on the event, as well as a list of participants:



Today at 3:15 PM ET, Vice President Harris will host a roundtable to hear from college and university leaders from across the country about the challenges their students are facing in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision to overturn 
 She will be joined by Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona. The participants will discuss what their campuses are doing to protect the health and well-being of their students. The event will be 
.

Participants


Since May, the Vice President has held more than two dozen convenings to coalesce leaders across the nation on the front lines fighting to protect a woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions.




Pool entered the VP Ceremonial Office at 3:20 pm. VP Harris began her remarks by praising the Senate passage of the Inflation Reduction Act over the weekend.

"This is happening as part of the vision the President and I laid out at the beginning of our administration," Harris said.

All round table participants are delivering short remarks for the Pool spray on reproductive health on college campuses.


Some highlights from the Pool spray ahead of the Roy table discussion:

VP Harris: 
The Supreme Court decided "to take a constitutional right that had been recognized".
"We must trust the women of America to make those intimate decisions for themselves."
She noted that the women most affected by the Roe ruling are in college or are college aged.

Education Secretary Cardona:

"Students and others now have a new set of barriers to accessing health care."

American Council on Education President Ted Mitchell: 
"This is a real issue for campuses. This is a real issue for our students." 
He said college students and staff feel "confusion and uncertainty" by the Dobbs ruling and the state-by-state varying abortion laws.

Roberta Cordano is the President of Gallaudet University, a higher education institution for the deaf and hard of hearing in Washington, DC. She delivered her remarks in ASL and noted the heightened sexual assault threat women with disabilities face, which she said is further complicated by the Dobbs decision.

Harris took notes on her legal pad while the college presidents spoke.

Pool was escorted out at 3:51pm.


The Vice President's office is asking your pooler to send along an additional roundtable participant they forgot to include in their initial list included in VP Pool #1:

Roberta J. Cordano, President, Gallaudet University