Ten years ago, a gunman attacked the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin in the town of Oak Creek. Six people died and four were wounded, and a seventh victim died of his wounds in 2020.

Tragically, threats and acts of violence against places of worship have increased over the past 10 years, both in the United States and abroad. Recent fatal shootings at houses of worship in the United States include attacks at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina; Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch, Tennessee; First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas; Tree of Life Congregation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Chabad of Poway in Poway, California; West Freeway Church of Christ in Tarrant County, Texas; Irvine Taiwanese Presbyterian Church in Laguna Woods, California; Cornerstone Church in Ames, Iowa; and St. Stephens Episcopal Church in Vestavia Hills, Alabama.

President Biden has pledged to do everything in his power to ensure that Americans can practice their faith without fear. As President Biden has said: "We must be vigilant against the rising tide of targeted violence and hate at home and abroad, and work to ensure that no one feels afraid to attend a religious service, school, or community center, or walk down the street wearing the symbols of their faith." This is a bedrock principle of our nation's commitment to religious freedom for all. The Biden-Harris Administration will continue to work shoulder-to-shoulder with Americans of all faiths and beliefs to safeguard these cherished principles and to preserve our nation's founding promise as an enduring citadel of diversity, unity, and mutual respect.

To achieve these aims, President Biden signed, and his Administration is implementing laws that will make communities safer, including the 
 and the 
 and the 
 The Administration is also taking 
 to: 
; 
to combat 
, including crimes committed on the basis of religious identity or affiliation; and implement the first-ever 
. These efforts safeguard all individuals, including those who gather at places of worship.

The Biden-Harris Administration is also protecting places of worship and congregants by taking additional steps, including:



 


 


 


 

