Today, the White House and U.S. Department of Treasury are hosting a White House Summit on Building Lasting Eviction Prevention Reform. As funds for Emergency Rental Assistance (ERA) are beginning to wind down, the Summit will focus on the need for an all-out effort to build lasting reform – including through the use of remaining American Rescue Plan (ARP) funds from ERA and State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (SLFRF) assistance. Having created a first-ever national infrastructure for eviction prevention, now is the time to ensure we build on this progress and prevent a return to 
, often for small amounts of funds and without any legal representation or eviction diversion options. The Summit will feature top Administration officials, Chairman of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee Sherrod Brown, Eviction Lab Founder Matthew Desmond, and will include State Supreme Court Justices and national, state, and local leaders who have pioneered lasting reform approaches that can serve as national models (see Appendix).





The Summit will feature overall policy views from top Administration Officials, Matthew Desmond, President and CEO of the National Low Income Housing Coalition Diane Yentel, and Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee Sherrod Brown, as well as models of visionary court-led reform, presented by Michigan Supreme Court Chief Justice Bridget Mary McCormack, New Mexico Supreme Court Chief Justice C. Shannon Bacon, and New Orleans First City Court Chief Judge Veronica Henry. The Summit will also highlight top eviction prevention innovations in Chicago, IL, presented by Mayor Lori Lightfoot; Philadelphia, PA, presented by Councilmember Helen Gym (At Large); Cleveland, OH; Colorado; and Oregon.

The program will begin at 12:30 pm ET and is scheduled to conclude at 2:30pm ET.



















Michigan Supreme Court Chief Justice Bridget Mary McCormack issued one of the earliest 
 during the pandemic to pause the eviction process once a rental assistance application has been submitted. Building on these best practices, 
 when a tenant applies for assistance. The proposed order requires a mandatory pre-trial convening to ensure tenants have access to rights and resources and prevents default judgments. It also prohibits five-day eviction orders, offers remote hearings for tenants with barriers to accessing courts, and attaches detailed information about assistance to every summons, among other best practices. The state also dedicated ERA housing stability funds to increase tenant access to legal counsel, with 
.



New Mexico Supreme Court Chief Justice C. Shannon Bacon created a task force of tenant and landlord groups, ERA program administrators, housing programs and state and local officials to design and launch 
, including a mandatory extension of the lease term where landlords accept rental assistance. The eviction diversion program includes increased access to legal representation, mediation, and financial navigators to provide holistic services to tenants at risk of eviction. Due to the success of the program in reducing evictions, 
 – initially made possible with American Rescue Plan funds.



Chief Judge Veronica Henry developed the First and Second City Courts' 
, a partnership between the City of New Orleans, First and Second City Courts, 
 
, 
, and Parochial Offices of the Court. 
 to on-site ERA administrators, Eviction Help Desks, the Right to Counsel Program, and other supportive services to prevent eviction and stabilize housing. New Orleans built on the diversion program by 
 and initially funding the intervention with $2 million in ERA funds.





Philadelphia Councilmember Helen Gym (At Large) introduced 
 
, which went into effect in August 2020. As a result, tenants at risk of eviction receive access to rental assistance and legal representation and tenants and landlords are required to participate in a free mediation session with the goal of resolution through an agreement. The diversion program has changed the culture to one where 
. 
, a key component of diversion. In addition, Philadelphia adopted the 
, which 
 and requires landlords to tell tenants why they were rejected and provide an opportunity to correct errors.



In July 2022, Chicago 
 housing stability funds to adopt a 
. The city is collaborating with legal service providers – 
, 
, and 
 – to provide legal representation and increase housing stability. The program is expected to 
, serving 2,000 to 3,000 tenants per year, and greatly reduce eviction orders. Chicago landlords and tenants have also benefited from the 
 
 to both tenants and unrepresented landlords. These programs have also effectively leveraged state law to 
 for tenants, preventing the Scarlet E of eviction that results in a downward move and long-term hardship.



The City of Cleveland was 
, immediately prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, initially funding the program through a public-private partnership including the City of Cleveland, 
 and the 
, among others. As private funds sunset, 
 and amplifying its effectiveness through the development of an eviction diversion program that includes pre-filing mediation. To ensure services reach those with the greatest need, partners have combined data analysis with canvassing and door knocking. Zip code data on eviction rates and the lowest number of requests for assistance allows partners to identify and target outreach to the most marginalized, highest risk tenants.



In Colorado, the COVID-19 Eviction Defense Project launched the 
, a 
 capable of issuing quick, accurate ERA payments in less than 24 hours through a new partnership between the 
 
, and 
 The 
 is available to all Colorado renters and gives those facing eviction 
 and integrates intake and navigation, rapid rental aid payments, eviction legal defense, and, when necessary, rehousing support. The initiative is strengthened by partnerships with legal aid organizations and organizations by and for Black, Indigenous, people of color (BIPOC) communities to ensure resources reach those at greatest risk of displacement with deference to cultural context. In Denver, the program 
. To ensure continued eviction prevention, partners are working to sustain the program long-term with funds from the state and are expanding to other housing areas, including foreclosure.



Oregon was one of the first states to supplement ERA funds with SLFRF and state funding. In addition, the state developed and funds the Eviction Prevention Rapid Response Program, a partnership between the 
 and the 
 (OHCS) that serves as a critical element of the 
. The program allows for 
, since legal aid can verify tenant eligibility and provide flexible funds to prevent evictions, including rental assistance, cleaning services, moving expenses, and more. OHCS also partners with community-based tenant organizations and nonprofits, including 
, 
, and the 
. During the height of the pandemic, these 
, including engaging in multi-lingual door knocking, and connecting their neighbors with resources to avoid eviction. As part of ongoing eviction prevention efforts, OHCS is also partnering with the 
, 
, and other community organizations statewide to conduct community outreach and provide critical eviction prevention services.
