Today the Biden-Harris Administration announced the first-ever 
 setting an ambitious goal to cut energy use and electrify equipment and appliances in 30 percent of the building space owned by the Federal government by 2030. Today's actions are the latest step forward in pursuit of President Biden's 
.
As a complementary step, today the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announced a 
 to electrify new Federal buildings and Federal buildings undergoing major renovations. As the country's single largest energy consumer and building manager, these new actions will save taxpayer dollars by reducing energy use while cutting millions of tons of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing resilience, strengthening U.S. energy independence, and growing the jobs of the future in America.
Additionally, the State of California announced it is joining the President's 
, a nationwide group of over 30 state and local governments that have committed to reducing the emissions footprint of existing buildings. With the addition of California to the coalition and the new 
, one quarter of all commercial, Federal, and multifamily buildings in the United States are now either covered by or moving toward sustainable building performance standard policies.
In the United States, residential and commercial buildings represent 
. Commercial and government buildings 
 to power each year. With eighty percent of all existing U.S. buildings expected to remain in service in 2050, electrifying existing buildings is essential to achieving President Biden's climate goals.
The 
 requires agencies to cut energy use and electrify equipment and appliances to achieve zero scope 1 emissions in 30 percent of their buildings by square footage by 2030
 To reach that mark, agencies will be buying American-made products such as heat pumps, electric water heaters, and other energy efficiency and building system technologies supported by the Inflation Reduction Act.
Federal buildings are a major source of the U.S. Government's direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Energy used in Federal buildings for space heating, water heating, cooking, and other needs account for over 25 percent of Federal emissions. In addition to lowering costs, efficient electrification of building equipment and appliances reduces air pollution—improving health in workplaces and communities.
Upgrading the Federal building portfolio to meet the new standard will reduce reliance on imported fossil fuels from volatile parts of the world and cut millions of tons of GHG emissions. Funding provided through the President's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, agency operating budgets, and the 
 will aid implementation. To further reduce costs and maximize efficiencies, agencies will apply electrification strategies in conjunction with deep energy retrofits, energy use and water use reductions, and other facility improvements.
Today 
 released a Supplemental Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking public comment on a forthcoming rule, 
, to support building decarbonization. The rule would set emissions reduction targets and require equipment and appliance electrification in new Federal buildings as well as Federal buildings undertaking major renovations. The rule is projected to save $8 million per year in building costs. The 
and the rule work together to ensure a comprehensive approach to Federal building decarbonization while reinforcing the urgency to reduce GHG emissions and creating new markets and well-paying jobs.
The 
 today announced that it has joined the 
, a White House initiative to accelerate building performance standards across over 30 state and local governments. California joins Colorado, Washington, and cities including New York City, Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Boston, and many others in committing to developing building performance standards with a goal of adoption by Earth Day 2024. As a result of building performance standards applied across jurisdictions participating in the National BPS Coalition, it is estimated that $124 billion will flow into the building electrification and construction industry by 2040.   
To support building owners, developers, and contractors seeking to meet a building performance standard, the President's Inflation Reduction Act provides substantial tax incentives. Under the revised Energy-Efficient Commercial Buildings Deduction, 179D, the total available deduction for developers and contractors completing these projects will nearly triple, increasing from $1.80 per square foot to potentially $5.00 per square foot, depending on the project's demonstrated increase in energy efficiency. Further, the Inflation Reduction Act expanded eligibility for the deduction to a broader range of organizations, including non-profits and Tribal governments. The 
to collect input from stakeholders, experts, and the public on key climate and energy tax provisions of the law.
To support effective city and state building performance policies, 
 and the 
 are providing 
 and 
 for policymakers and program administrators. Policy design and implementation support includes analysis, policy design, implementation, and stakeholder engagement. DOE and EPA are further collaborating to facilitate access to new Federal programs and related activities that reduce emissions from the built environment.
In response to the President's early executive orders and Federal sustainability goals, Federal agencies are advancing net-zero goals across new building construction, major modernizations, and existing building retrofits—electrifying systems, saving energy, and lowering emissions. Highlights include: