Pool Reports by 
, 
Dr. Biden arrived at the Crypto Arena (formerly known as Staples Center) at 12:30 pm.
Pool spotted FLOTUS coming out of the hotel at 12:07 pm wearing a gray pants suit.
She is rehearsing for the Grammys Awards tonight in which she is presenting an award. Pool has asked for details on what she is presenting and will share anything received.
It is 61 degrees and sunny. Pool is holding in the vans.
Pool saw Dr. Biden exit the Crypto Arena at 1:32 pm.
She arrived back at the hotel at 1:54 pm.
The pool spent the time at the Crypto Arena in the vans at a back entrance so had no access to rehearsal hall and saw no celebrities or people of note.
There's now a break until the Grammys tonight.
Motorcade left the hotel at 6:06 pm and arrived at the Crypto Arena at 6:35 pm.
Pool caught a brief glimpse of Dr. Biden as she got out of the car wearing a dark dress and heels.
She went in a back entrance of the arena and pool split off to go to the media center to hold.
Dr. Biden walked on stage at 8:02 pm wearing a long sparkling gown. She received a standing ovation.
Host Trevor Noah, who introduced her, described her as "the only person in the world who knows which of tonight's songs the President's sings in the shower."
She presented two awards - the Song of the Year and the new award "Best Song for Social Change."
Iranian singer Shervin Hajipour won the new social change award. His song Baraye has been described as the anthem of the Mahsa Amini protests in Iran.
Biden described the song as a "powerful and poetic call for freedom and women's rights."
He was arrested on September 29, 2022 - two days after his song was released on social media - and was released two days later. He is not allowed to leave Iran.
Biden then presented Song of the Year to Just Like That by Bonnie Raitt. She kissed Raitt on the cheek.
From the East Wing:
Background: The Recording Academy asked the First Lady to present two awards at this year's Grammys:
From Vanessa Valdivia, Press Secretary for the First Lady: "The First Lady was honored to be asked by the Recording Academy to announce the Grammys' first Social Change award to Shervin Hajipour for his song 'Baraye'. As a steadfast champion for women and girls around the world, the First Lady was inspired by his song that served as an anthem for freedom and women's rights."
FLOTUS walked out of the Cyrpto arena at 8:20 pm. She appeared to have changed out of her presenter dress.
Motorcade is headed out and that is it for tonight.
Pooler will be back Monday morning for departure from Los Angeles. Please reach out with any questions.