Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
Chris Kane, here, your in-town print pooler for the day.
Call time this morning is 9:45 a.m.
Good morning,
Updated press guidance from the WH:
The President will deliver remarks on the January jobs report. These remarks in the South Court Auditorium will be open to pre-credentialed media. [RSVP by 9:50 AM]
Good morning,
Press is gathered in the South Court Auditorium. Two-minute warning for the President's remarks about the January jobs report.
In attendance for the President's remarks on the January jobs report:
Dr. Cecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Another two-minute warning
Again, joining President Biden will be: Dr. Cecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
President Biden:
Good news before i head to Philadelphia. Next week i'll be reporting on SOTU. Today, i'm happy to report the state of our economy is strong. Half million jobs were created in month of January. We learned half million more jobs created last year than we thought so the December report is updated. 12 million jobs since i took office. that means we created more jobs in 2 years than any presidential term. As my dad used to say jobs are about more than a paycheck. 12 million more Americans get up every morning knowing they can provide for their families. Unemployment rate fell to 3.4%, lowest in 54 years. Last time it was that low was May of 1969. Black and hispanic unemployment at record lows. Inflation has now fallen for 6 straight months. Take home pay for workers is increasing. Wages have gone up. Couple that with 2.9% economic growth last quarter. strongest job growth in history. manufacturing rebounding.
While we may face setbacks along the way, our plan is working because of the grit and resolve of the American worker. We're lowering costs for prescription drugs, clean energy. We'll keep seeing shovels hitting the ground to rebuild our infrastructure. In communities across the country - we'll see a sense of pride coming back. Trickle down economics works for only one group of people.
The President addressed one question about whether he bears responsibility for inflation, responding that it was an issue before he took office.
Below is a partial transcript of President Biden's remarks from the South Court Auditorium this morning on the January jobs report and response to a question from the press:
President Biden addressed one question from the press: "Will you take any blame for inflation, Mr. President?"
President Biden responded: 
Good afternoon,
Press is gathered at the Palm doors ahead of President Biden's departure from the South Lawn.
President Biden boarded Marine One at 1:10 p.m. and took off at 1:14 p.m. He did not take questions from reporters about reports that a suspected Chinese spy balloon was flown over the U.S.
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press for Secretary
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Will Gaggle aboard Air Force One in 5 minutes
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello on this sunny, frigid afternoon! Hope you're all well. I'll be your out-of-town pooler today.
Marine One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 1:23 PM.
POTUS stepped off M1 and did not answer shouted questions about China or shouts of "balloon!" He boarded AF1 at 1:27.
Before Marine One landed, your pooler spotted Senator John Fetterman boarding AF1.
We boarded the smaller AF1 at TKTK. White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre's gaggle can be heard here: 
From WH:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Here is our schedule for the rest of the day:
 
AF1 landed at Philadelphia International Airport at 2:01 PM.
White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre briefed for about 6 and half minutes. All questions were balloon related. She said POTUS was briefed on the balloon Tuesday and he supports Secretary Blinken postponing his trip to China. She did not directly answer questions about why the public was not informed of the balloon earlier in the week.
From the White House:
Senator John Fetterman (PA)
Rep. James Clyburn (SC-06)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press Secretary
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President, National Security Council Acting Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Apologies for the stray "TKTK" in the last report.
Biden exited AF1 at 2:09 PM.
He ignored a question about his message to China.
We're rolling to Belmont Water Treatment Center at 2:11 PM.
Here's a list of those traveling with potus to his remarks at the water treatment center.
The Vice President
Senator John Fetterman (PA)
Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press Secretary
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President, National Security Council Acting Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
The motorcade arrived at the water facility at 2:35 PM.
From the WH:
Governor Josh Shapiro (PA)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Representative Dwight Evans (PA-03)
Mayor Jim Kenney, Philadelphia, PA
Here's a lineup of speakers for the program on lead pipes removal and the administration's economic agenda. The pre-program began around 2:45. I'll send notice before Biden and Harris's remarks.
From WH:
Members of Congress, state and local elected officials, officials from the Environmental Protection Agency, Philadelphia Water Department workers, individuals affected by lead contamination, and important advocates for clean and safe water
Mayor Jim Kenney, Philadelphia, P
Governor Josh Shapiro (PA)
Representative Dwight Evans (PA-03)
Administrator Michael Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Senator John Fetterman (PA)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
The Vice President
Jana Curtis, Founder, Get the Lead Out Riverwards
The President
2 minutes until POTUS remarks
POTUS spoke for 17 minutes. He finished at 3:32 PM.
Before he began, he brought on stage Nolan, the daughter of Jana Curtis, founder of Get the Lead Out Riverwards, and thanked her for making a difference for all Americans. Nolan was poisoned by lead at a young age.
Early in his remarks, POTUS celebrated the jobs report.
He then went on to talk about his plan for lead pipe removal and the jobs his administration said it would create. Here's some quotes:
"We've been needing this for a long time. This is not new."
POTUS said there were more than 24 million housing units that have problems with lead-based paint.
"No amount of lead in water is safe. None," he said.
He repeated the commitment to replace every lead-contaminated service line in the next decade.
POTUS and VP chatted and took selfies with attendees of the event for about 10 minutes after Biden's remarks.
A correction: the name of the girl POTUS thanked on stage is Nolyn Pace. The name provided previously was spelled "Nolan."
We're rolling at 4:07 PM to the Sheraton Philadelphia Hotel for the DNC reception.
After an uneventful ride, the motorcade arrived at the Sheraton at 4:18 PM.
Hello. Pool was brought into the muggy conference room that served as the setting for the DNC reception. Your pooler spotted Rep. Jim Clyburn, DNC senior adviser Cedric Richmond and Senator Chris Coons towards the right side of the room where the press was positioned. Senator John Fetterman stood at the back of the room.
DNC chair Jaime Harrison, Vice President Harris and President Biden entered the room at 4:45 PM. There were four American flags behind them positioned in front of a blue curtain. A railing separated them from the audience of more than 50.
Harrison thanked Harris for her tie breaking votes on the infrastructure package and other bills. He commended her for advocating for the removal of lead pipes and speaking at the funeral of Tyre Nichols.
"Vice President Kamala Harris is for the people and that's who she and President Biden are fighting for each day," Harrison said.
The VP started speaking at 4:46 PM. Her remarks were about eight minutes long.
She said she was asked recently what the one word to describe 2023 is. "Momentum," she said.
"We got a lot of finger pointing to do and by that I mean pointing at the results of the hard work," Ms. Harris said.
She listed the legislative achievements of the Biden administration.
She said Democrats believe "in the integrity and the purpose of our government to do the good work of the American people."
She said Americans now believe their government can produce results, even fixing roads and bridges. "Thats kind of basic but no one did it before President Biden," she said, prompting laughs and applause.
"I see the president at all hours, in all circumstances and I see what you all know, I'm sure, but don't see everyday. He works so hard," she said.
"I see him make some of the most difficult decisions anyone could be charged with making," she said.
President Biden then began his remarks at 4:54 PM. He spoke for about 21 minutes.
"It's good to be almost home," Biden said to laughs. The president's voice was noticeably more hoarse than when he gave remarks on the economy earlier on Friday. He coughed multiple times.
He mentioned his past fundraising success in Philadelphia.
"Jill is out in California campaigning and she told me last week, 'hope you don't mind but I'm going to the Eagles game," he said, referring to the First Lady attending the Super Bowl.
"Everyone here knows Philly. You are the most informed and obnoxious fans in the world," Biden said. "I'm a Philly fan too but I'm just not as obnoxious as she is."
"If I were not a fan of Philly sports, I'd be sleeping alone," the president said.
Biden said he was convinced to run after white supremacists marched into Charlottesville.
"The former president was asked and he said there were very good people on both sides," Biden said. Biden said he had no intention of running until that moment.
"You all came to this party in the same way. The way to rebuild the country is bottom up and middle out," he said.
"We're laying down a foundation because the world is changing, dramatically changing," he said.
He mentioned that he's traveled over 17,000 miles with Xi Jinping. He recalled Xi asking him to define America. Biden said he answered "possibilities."
Biden then looked at Rep. Clyburn. "Jim, I would not be standing here without you, pal. I would not be standing here without you."
Biden went on to talk about his legislative achievements. Referring to Harris, Biden thanked the "gentlelady from the great state of California" for her tie breaking votes.
"The great part about being vice president: every time you vote, you win," Biden said.
Biden said his administration has created 750,000 manufacturing jobs in America.
He then referred to an off the record meeting he once had with media commentators. He was asked what he would do if he could fix one thing in the nation, he said. He answered that he would cure cancer.
"I'm not saying we've done everything right. And I'm going to make more mistakes," Biden said.
Biden recalled his first G7 meeting as president. He told allies "America's back." Biden said President Macron of France turned to him and said "how long?"
He said Olaf Scholz, the chancellor of Germany, asked him, "what would you do, Mr. President, if in fact, we adjourned tonight, you woke up in the morning and found out the British Parliament was stormed" and the election was overruled and two police officers were killed?
"Think about that," Biden said.
Biden said allies are desperately looking for America's leadership.
"Jim, you know that," Biden said, looking at Rep. Clyburn. "And this is a guy who's helped me desperately in Africa."
"No matter who is president things are going to change radically in the next 15 years," Biden said. "And the question is are we going to be leading the pack or are we going to be the end of it?"
He went on to talk about "MAGA Republicans." He said there's still good Republicans left but also a handful of "MAGA Republicans."
"This ain't your father's Republican party," he said.
Biden referenced his meeting recently with McCarthy this week. He said he told him "the first thing you want to introduce will increase the debt by $1.2 trillion," he said. He said they want to eliminate the IRS.
"They want the poor and the middle class to pay everything," he said.
After remarks by the VP, President Biden walked on stage at 6:03 PM to chants of "four more years" and "go birds."
You can stream his remarks here:
From the White House:
Attributable to Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre:
Today, the President and the Vice President will participate in a reception for the Democratic National Committee and deliver remarks at the Democratic National Committee Winter Meeting.
After, the President will head to Wilmington, Delaware.
On Saturday, the President will travel from Wilmington, Delaware to Camp David. He will return to Washington, DC on Monday.
On Tuesday, the President will address the peoples' representatives in Congress at the State of the Union. He looks forward to speaking with Republicans, Democrats, and the country about how we can work together to continue building an economy that works from the bottom up and the middle out, continue boosting our competitiveness in the world, keep the American people safe, and bring the country together.
Following the State of the Union, the President, the Vice President and the Cabinet will blitz the country to showcase how the President's plan is creating jobs, rebuilding our infrastructure, lowering costs for families, investing in our future, and delivering for families too often left behind.
On Wednesday, the President will travel to the Madison area of Wisconsin. He will discuss how his economic plan is creating good-paying, union jobs, and delivering real results for the American people.
On Thursday, the President will travel to Tampa, Florida. He will discuss his plan to protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare, and lower healthcare costs.
On Friday, the President and the Vice President will welcome the nation's Governors to the White House during the National Governors Association Winter Meeting. They will hear directly from the Governors about the impact of the Biden-Harris Administration's economic agenda on states across the country, and they will discuss opportunities for states to continue investing in infrastructure, manufacturing, workforce development, and lowering costs for working families, among other key priorities.
After, the President looks forward to welcoming President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil to the White House to further strengthen the close relationship between the United States and Brazil. During their meeting at the White House, the two Presidents will discuss the United States' unwavering support of Brazil's democracy and how the two countries can continue to work together to promote inclusion and democratic values in the region and around the world, particularly in the lead-up to the March 2023 Summit for Democracy.
On Saturday, the President and the First Lady will welcome Governors and their spouses for a black-tie dinner at the White House. The Vice President and the Second Gentleman will attend.
The President finished his remarks at 6:26. The crowd shouted "four more years." Pool is shuffled off to motorcade.
Also, here is the photo line the president participated in before the reception (which was restricted pool). From the WH:
Senator John Fetterman (PA)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Representative Dwight Evans (PA-03)
Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL)
Mayor Jim Kenney, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Jason Hughes, Louisiana State Representative (District 100)
Motorcade left the Sheraton at 6:53 PM. We arrived at Philadelphia International at 7:11 PM. POTUS exited the Beast at 7:15 and boarded AF1 without answering shouted questions on China. We're heading to DANG.
AF1 landed at DANG at 7:39 PM.
POTUS was spotted laughing with the AF1 pilot briefly before exiting the plane at 7:49 PM and entering the Beast. We're rolling at 7:51 PM.
Motorcade dropped off POTUS at his residence at 8:05 PM. We have a lid.
Thanks for staying with me folks!