Pool Reports by 
, 
Hi everyone,
I'll be your pooler for today.
There's a breakfast/lunch lid until 4pm.
The lid has been extended to 7:50pm.
In-town pool is gathering now at the Palm Room doors to head to the Capitol.
The motorcade started heading towards the Capitol at 8:30 pm.
POTUS got in the Beast at 8:30 pm.
The motorcade arrived in front of the Capitol at 8:40.
Pool did not see POTUS head inside.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President, the First Lady, and the Second Gentleman via motorcade en route the United States Capitol:
Jeff Zients, Incoming Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Jordan Brooks, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Second Gentleman
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Vanessa Valdivia, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First Lady
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the United States Capitol:
Lieutenant General Karen Gibson, Senate Sergeant at Arms
Bill McFarland, House Sergeant at Arms
Brett Blanton, Architect of the Capitol
From a White House official:
Labor Secretary Marty Walsh is Designated Survivor
Participating in a photoline with the President at the United States Capitol:
President Pro Tempore of the Senate Patty Murray (WA)
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (NY)
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY)
Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (IL)
Senate Minority Whip John Thune (SD)
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator John Barrasso (WY)
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Senator Joni Ernst (IA)
Senator Steve Daines (MT)
Senator Shelley Moore Capito (WV)
House Majority Leader Steve Scalise (LA-01)
House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08)
House Majority Whip Tom Emmer (MN-06)
House Minority Whip Katherine Clark (MA-05)
Rep. James Clyburn (SC-06)
Rep. Judy Chu (CA-28)
Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01)
Rep. Richard Hudson (NC-09)
Rep. Gary Palmer (AL-06)
Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-33)
Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-36)
Rep. Elise Stefanik (NY-21)
Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04)
Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-02)
Rep. Jen Kiggans (VA-02)
Rep. Lori Chavez-DeRemer (OR-05)
Biden walked in at 9:03 pm and began his remarks at 9:09 pm.
His speech is being live streamed here: 
Transcript is here, ICYMI:
[
]
Biden ended his remarks at 10:21 pm.
Pool was ushered out of the Capitol and is headed to the motorcade.
The motorcade started rolling at 11:10 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS get in the Beast.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 11:18 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS, but heard staff applauding him while walking through the White House.
The White House has called a lid for tonight.
Goodnight!