Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool is gathering for departure to the summit.
The earlier update to today's schedule:
Motorcade departed White House in a light but steady cold rain at 11:25 a.m.
the president'smotorcade arrived at the convention center at 11:30.
the president spoke from 11:35 to 11:42.
He spoke about his administration's commitment to the continent and promised they would be seeing much of him and his administration in the years to come.
More from speech to come. (now that computer problems are resolved)
Secretary Antony Blinken, U.S. Department of State
Approximately 50 Heads of Delegation
Government officials, business leaders, and members of Congress
The President
President Macky Sall of Senegal, Chairperson of the African Union
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, Leaders Session: Partnering on Agenda 2063 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Judd Devermont, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for African Affairs for the National Security Council
Dana Banks, Special Assistant to the President & Special Advisor for the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff for the National Security Council
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
Charlie Fromstein, Director of National Security Council Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
In his morning remarks at the Leaders Session of the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit (which should be checked against the transcript), the president said "the people of Africa are indispensable partners" to the United States. He mentioned Russia's "unprovoked war" and blamed it for "erasing many of the development gains we have worked so hard to achieve." Speaking of the money he and Congress plan to spend on programs for Africa, he said, "Our new shared vision statement lays out a forward-looking plan." He added, "We want to work with you on issues that matter the most." And, "We want to increase our collaboration in every area." He said the aid that will be coming from the IMF will help "build resilience." He then said that "the United States will always lead with our values." He said that is "part of our DNA." He added, "That doesn't mean we always get everything right. We surely don't." But he said "consistent self improvement" is the goal.
He also cited what he called "record voter turnout in Zambia" and said "our greatest power is our people." He added, "One of the achievements I want to highlight today…is combating democratic backsliding." He promised to work with African governments and civil society in this area, including facilitating voter registration programs. Again, he promised to "work with our African partners" in the years to come. He added, "Now, as every leader understands, the real measure of success is not in announcements. It's in the follow through." That, he said, is why he has appointed veteran ambassador Johnny Carson to implement the promises made here. Joking about travel to the continent, he said, "Be careful what you wish for. I may show up." He said there will be visits to Africa by the First Lady, the Vice President, the Secretary of State and other top officials. "All kidding aside, we're all going to be seeing you and you'll see a lot of us." All, he said, is in service to building "an integrated, prosperous and free Africa." He concluded saying "I'm eager to hear from all of you." He then sat down to listen to the program and the pool was escorted to a holding room.
Sad to report that the motorcade departed for White House without the pool. President arrived back at 1 p.m.
The official explanation for leaving the pool at the convention center was "radio miscommunication," according to a White House spokesman who also was stranded.
From the White House:
There was no emergency or security situation. It appears there was a radio miscommunication upon departure.
Vans are currently picking up the White House staff and press that were left at the Convention Center, and the press briefing will start once the pool returns to the White House.
We share an appreciation for how important it is for the press pool to travel with the President and this remains a priority for our entire team. We sincerely apologize for the confusion and inconvrnience.
The press briefing will now start at 2:25pm.
Two minute warning for briefing at 2:30 p.m.
Briefing ended at 3:21 after Dr. Jha took 11 questions in 11 minutes and Karine took 23 questions in 26 minutes.
Pool is currently holding on South Lawn for return to the summit.
Motorcade departed White House at 4:09.
Motorcade arrived at the convention center at 4:15. The president's first stop was the summit photo.
The leaders were on four tiers. The top row had nine men and one woman; Row 3 had 13 men; Row 2 had 11 men; The first row had 12 men including President Biden in the center. In a blue suit and light blue tie, he smiled broadly and chatted with leaders in the second row and his row, exchanging handshakes and at least one fist bump. He waved but said nothing audible to the pool. The leaders started taking their places at 4:26 and the president entered at 4:28.
from the White house:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff for the National Security Council
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
Charlie Fromstein, Director of National Security Council Visits and Diplomatic Affairs
The president just completed his remarks at the opening of the Food Security discussion and turned it over to Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen.
The president spoke in front of a colorful array of all the represented countries with an American flag to the far left as looking at the stage. In his remarks, he lamented that, "Today, famine once more stalks the horn of Africa…taking the livelihoods of millions of people across the continent." He said that climate change and covid 19 complicate the situation. "The challenges we face are both clear and they are urgent," he said, He talked of American food and security assistance, which he said is even more needed because of what he called a "dramatic surge in the horn of Africa." He announced an additional $2 billion in humanitarian assistance. He said, "We're bringing everything to bear on this problem." To help "lessen chronic hunger": he talked of unused arable farm land in Africa, "land that can be used to transform the continent." With this a revival of Africa's agricultural sector, he said, "Africa has the potential to feed its people and also help feed the world."
He said he is expanding the feed the future initiative to eight more countries, a program that started when he was vice president. He said it has helped 23 million people above the poverty line around the world. He also stressed the importance of expanding access to new markets and lowering trade barriers. Also, he said, "we are strengthening our partnership with e private sector" and entering a new strategic partnership with the African Union. Finally, he said, he is working at "bringing the world together to meet this challenge."
Here from the White House beforehand:
The President is delivering opening remarks at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, Closing Session: Promoting Food Security and Food Resilience.
Secretary Janet Yellen, U.S. Department of the Treasury
Secretary Antony Blinken, U.S. Department of State
Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of Agriculture
Approximately 50 Heads of Delegation
Government officials, business leaders, and members of Congress
The President
And from the photo:
[
Joining the President for a family photo at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit:
H.E. Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson for the Commission of the African Union
H.E. Aïmene Benabderrahmane, Prime Minister of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
H.E. João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, President of the Republic of Angola
H.E. Aurélin Agbénonci, Minister of Foreign Affairs and international cooperation of the Republic of Benin
H.E. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi, President of the Republic of Botswana
H.E. Evariste Ndayishimiye, President of the Republic of Burundi
H.E. Ulisses Correia E Silva, Prime Minister of the Republic of Cabo Verde
H.E. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of Cameroon
H.E. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the Central African Republic
H.E. Mahamat Idriss Deby Itno, President of Transition Republic of Chad
H.E. Azali Assoumani, President of the Union of the Comoros
H.E. Felix Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo, President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
H.E. Denis Sassou N'guesso, President of the Republic of the Congo
H.E. Patrick Achi, Prime Minister of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
H.E. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti
H.E. Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt
H.E. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
T.R.H. Cleopas Sipho Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Eswatini
H.E. Abiy Ahmed Ali, Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
H.E. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Republic of Gabon
H.E. Mamadou Tangara, Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Gambians Abroad of the Republic of The Gambia
H.E. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic of Ghana
H.E. Umaro Sissoco Embaló, President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
H.E. William Ruto, President of the Republic of Kenya
T.R.H. Ntsokoane Samuel Matekane, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho
H.E. George Manneh Weah, President of the Republic of Liberia
H.E. Mohamed Younis Menfi, President of the Presidential Council of the State of Libya
H.E. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President of the Republic of Madagascar
H.E. Lazarus McCarthy Chakwera, President of the Republic of Malawi
H.E. Mohamed Ould Cheikh El Ghazouani, President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
T.H. Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius
H.E. Aziz Akhannouch, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco
H.E. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic of Mozambique
H.E. Hage Gottfried Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia
H.E. Mohamed Bazoum, President of the Republic of Niger
H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
T.H. Vincent Biruta, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Republic of Rwanda
H.E. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal
H.E. Wavel John Charles Ramkalawan, President of the Republic of Seychelles
H.E. Julius Maada Bio, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone
H.E. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, President of the Federal Republic of Somalia
H.E. Naledi Grace Mandisa Pandor, Minister for International Relations & Cooperation of the Republic of South Africa
T.H. Mayiik Ayii Deng, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Transitional Government of South Sudan
H.E. Samia Suluhu Hassan, President of the United Republic of Tanzania
H.E. Faure Essozimna Gnassingbe, President of the Togolese Republic
H.E. Kais Saied, President of the Republic of Tunisia
H.E. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda
H.E. Hakainde Sammy Hichilema, President of the Republic of Zambia
T.H. Frederick Makamure Shava, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of the Republic of Zimbabwe
The motorcade (This time including the pool vans) departed the Convention Center at 6:01.
The president and motorcade arrived back at White House at 6:06.
We have a dinner lid for one hour until 7:20.
Probably because rainy days are not complete without yet another motorcade, President Biden's motorcade to Andrews departed the White House at 8:17, just eight minutes short of nine hours after his first ride of the day.
The president and his motorcade arrived at Andrews at 8:40 after an uneventful drive. Similarly uneventfully, the president boarded the plane, turning and waving in the persistent but light rain.
Handing off to Travel Pool at 8:46 p.m.
From the White House:
Traveling with the president via
motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello all,
I'll be your supplemental foreign pooler for the President's events at the US-Africa Leaders Summit.
1st event is the leaders session on the African Union's Agenda 2063, scheduled for 11:15am.
The AU agenda 2063 was first announced in 2013, 50 years after the creation of the Organization of African Unity (the predecessor of the AU) and adopted in 2015, as a "blueprint and master plan" for the next 50 years to "transform Africa into the global powerhouse of the future."
Among the main stated goals of the agenda are:
-economic development
-political integration & independence from foreign powers
-democracy & justice
-security & peace
-strengthening cultural identity
You can find more information of the AU agenda 2063 here
Your foreign pooler is in the meeting room. Several leaders have already started taking their seats around the leaders center table.
Per WH, we are expecting POTUS to speak first, followed by Macky Sall, President of Senegal and current Chairperson of the AU. Then Moussa Faki, Chairperson of the AU Commission (former PM of Chad).
POTUS expressed his condolences to the people of the DRC following the devastating & deadly floods that killed more than 100 people so far.
He officially announced his support for the AU to join the G20 as a permanent member (as he did for the UNSC back in September) His announcement was met with a round of applause.
Sec of State Tony Blinken then introduced President Macky Sall of Senegal who is the current Chair of the AU.
He also mentioned it was the first time all leaders were around the same table at this summit. There are however at least 5 empty leaders seats.
Sall spoke French. (This is my own translation so please check against official translated transcript.)
He started by thanking POTUS & FLOTUS for their hospitality
"We appreciate your attachment to the African-American partnership."
"In these times of profound mutation, working together requires another way of thinking the world by acting as partners conscious of their unequal development levels, respectful of their common values and their differences."
He listed priorities
-Peace, security and fight against terrorism
-triple impact of climate change, health crisis, wars
"The current crisis weakens the democratic ideal on the continent."
-Investment on infrastructure for development
-"Africa, the least polluting continent but the most vulnerable to climate change (...) is asking for a just and fair energy transition"
-Food sovereignty
-Just governance.
Thanked POTUS for already giving part of the answer by supporting G20 permanent membership for the AU.
AU chair also called out the US on 2 issues
"We are calling on the lifting of sanctions that continue to impact the Zimbabwean people."
Likely referring to the 'Countering Malign Russian Activities in Africa Act', Sall said the AU was "preoccupied by the US legislation regarding trade between our countries and a foreign economic power. This project, with its sanctions, which targets a whole continent, is a first in international relations. All of Africa is wondering why such legislation, and why is Africa the target."
He called on the US to rethink this move saying that adopting this bill "could gravely harm the relationship between Africa and the United States."
Blinken then introduced Mr. Faki who spoke in French for a couple of minutes
Here's the family photo plan.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
The motorcade stopped at JBA at 8:41 p.m. and POTUS stepped out of the Beast at 8:43 p.m.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 8.43 p.m. he did not respond to shouted questions.
Pool spotted CNN playing in the main cabin.
We'll be wheels up shortly. It's a roughly 35-minute flight to DANG.
Wheels were up at JBA at 8:54 p.m. Wheels down at DANG at 9:18 p.m.
POTUS disembarked at 9:26 p.m. onto a rainy tarmac. He spoke for about a minute with the greeter before hopping into the Beast at 9:27 p.m.
Pool started rolling at 9:29 p.m.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
The motorcade stopped at POTUS' Wilmington residence at 9:43 p.m.
Pool did not see POTUS step out of the Beast.
A lid was called at 9:43 p.m.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Col. Christopher Farmer, Commander, 166th Operations Group
From the WH:
Correction: The greeter at Delaware Air National Guard Base was Col Christine Geraldine Estacion