Vice President Kamala Harris and the Partnership for Central America today announced more than $950 million in new private sector commitments in response to her Call to Action for Northern Central America, bringing the overall total to more than $4.2 billion since May 2021. These investments will help address the root causes of migration by creating economic opportunity in the region. The Partnership for Central America, which was launched with Vice President Harris in May 2021, has played a crucial role in mobilizing these new commitments. As part of this public-private partnership, approximately 47 companies and organizations are collaborating across financial services, textiles and apparel, agriculture, technology, telecommunications and nonprofit sectors to strengthen the region's economic security. These investments are creating jobs, connecting people to the digital economy, expanding access to financing for small businesses, providing training and education for youth and workers, and improving economic livelihoods for people in the region.
As part of her role leading U.S. government efforts to address the root causes of migration from northern Central America, in May 2021, the Vice President launched the Call to Action for businesses and social enterprises to make significant commitments to promote economic opportunity for people in the region. This is in support of the U.S. Strategy to Address the Root Causes of Migration, which the Vice President launched in July 2021.
The following companies and organizations announced major new commitments today:
Specific highlights of previous commitments include:
The Call to Action is facilitated through a public-private partnership between the State Department and the independent organization the Partnership for Central America, in close coordination with USAID. The Call to Action's six focus areas are intended to support long-term development of the region, including: promoting a reform agenda; digital and financial inclusion; food security and climate-smart agriculture; climate adaptation and clean energy; education and workforce development; and public health access; strengthening democratic governance, combatting corruption, and improving security. The Biden-Harris Administration looks forward to increased collaboration with private companies from around the world to build upon this Call to Action in the months and years to come. The Administration welcomes additional commitments to participate in this initiative and promote economic opportunity in northern Central America. Vice President Harris invites interested parties to visit the State Department's website at 
, or contact the State Department at 
.
More information can also be found in the 
. The Partnership can be contacted at 
.