Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning, I'll be your out-of-town pooler today. After delivering the State of the Union last night, the president will hit the road, taking a trip to Madison, Wisconsin.
Pool has been swept at JBA and we await POTUS' arrival. Note: we are taking the smaller Air Force One so we will have signal issues once onboard.
Below, please find the travel portion or today's schedule as well as some background provided by a White House official about the trip:
------
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Madison, Wisconsin
Following the State of the Union address, where the President spoke about the historic progress building an economy from the bottom up and middle out - and creating good-paying, union jobs - the President will travel to a Laborers' International Union of North America (LIUNA) training center in Deforest, Wisconsin, just outside of Madison. The President will discuss how his economic plan has ushered in a manufacturing boom and created good-paying jobs, including union jobs and jobs that don't require a four-year degree, across Wisconsin and the country. The President will meet with workers and apprentices, many of whom are training to do the jobs being created as a result of the President's American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act.
At Wednesday's event, the President will be introduced by Sarah, an apprentice and LIUNA member who specializes in road work and utilities. Sarah's father and brother worked in the construction trades. Sarah followed in their footsteps and began an apprenticeship through Wisconsin's Laborer's Apprenticeship program. Sarah found a passion for the work – she enthusiastically and quickly completed over 400 apprenticeship classroom hours. Sarah is confident about her future where she can build a career for herself with good-paying work to support a family, healthcare, and a pension.
M1 was wheels down at JBA at 10:17 am. President Biden, wearing his aviator sunglasses and blue suit, stepped off the helicopter at 10:22 and ambled across the tarmac to the small AF1. He ignored reporters' shouted questions about last night's State of the Union and the Republicans' reactions during the speech.
He boarded the AF1 at 10:24 and we will be wheels up shortly. Note: White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle on the flight and it will be live-streamed on the White House website.
Next stop: Wisconsin.
And per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Truax Field Air National Guard Base, Madison, Wisconsin:
Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & National Security Council Coordinator for Defense Policy & Arms Control
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Terry O'Sullivan, General President of LiUNA
AF1 was wheels down at 11:28 am CST at Truax Field Air National Guard Base in Madison, Wisconsin. It was a somewhat bumpy, though otherwise uneventful flight.
POTUS came down the steps at 11:40 and briefly spoke to the waiting greeters, including the governor of Wisconsin. The president then took a group selfie before strolling over to say hello to a small group of onlookers.
POTUS then stepped into the motorcade at 11:46 and we were rolling just two minutes later.
Our only visitor during the flight was White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, who gaggled aboard AF1, beginning at 10:43 CST. She fielded questions for 25 minutes and it was live-streamed on the White House website. Among the topics hit: the president's reactions to the SOTU response, his faith in the GOP's declarations not to cut Social Security or Medicare, the Chinese spy ballon and the future of Secretary of Labor Mahty Walsh.
From the WH:
Greeting the President at Truax Field Air National Guard Base, Madison, Wisconsin:
Tony Evers, Governor of Wisconsin
Kathy Evers, Spouse of Governor Tony Evers
Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02)
Satya Rhodes-Conway, Mayor of Madison, Wisconsin
Patrick Miles, Chair of Dane County Board of Supervisors, Wisconsin
Major General Paul E. Knapp, Adjutant General, Wisconsin National Guard
Colonel Bart Van Roo, 115th Fighter Wing Commander, Wisconsin Air National Guard
Terry O'Sullivan, General President of LiUNA
After an uneventful and brief ride, the motorcade pulled into the Wisconsin Laborers Training Center in DeForest, WI at 12:01 pm
We did not see POTUS exit the Beast. Pool is now holding ahead of the president's remarks
Pool is now inside the union hall, where the president will be flanked by hard hat-wearing workers. A soundtrack leaning heavy on rock (Soundgarden, Kansas, Pink Floyd, etc) is playing while the president is elsewhere on site participating in a photo line
Plenty of American flags are up as well as signs that read "Good Jobs, Lower Costs, Better Pay." Remarks are scheduled for 1 pm CST.
From the WH:
Participating in a photo line with the President at the LIUNA Training Center, DeForest, Wisconsin:
Tony Evers, Governor of Wisconsin
Kathy Evers, Spouse of Governor Tony Evers
Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-02)
Sara Rodriguez, Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin
Satya Rhodes-Conway, Mayor of Madison, WI
Jane Cahill Wolfgram, Village President of DeForrest, WI
Patrick Miles, Chair of Dane County Board of Supervisors, WI
Melissa Agard, Wisconsin State Senate Minority Leader
Josh Kaul, Attorney General of Wisconsin
Marlon WhiteEagle, President of Ho-Chunk Nation of Wisconsin
Terry O'Sullivan, General President of LiUNA
After being introduced by a union worker, POTUS took the stage at 12:49 pm CST. The remarks are being carried on the White House website.
Note: cell service in the union hall is very poor
POTUS wrapped up at 1:14 pm CST, after delivering a forceful case for his legislative record and reprising some of the themes from last night's State of the Union.
He then began to work the rope line and shake hands with the crowd. POTUS will be taping an interview with PBS this afternoon here in Wisconsin, per the White House. It will air this evening. Pool is now holding.
After a long, multi-hour hold, the presidential motorcade pulled away from the union trading center at 4:27 pm CST. Per the White House, POTUS completed his PBS interview and participated in another photo line
The motorcade retuned to the airport in Madison at 4:37 pm. POTUS stepped out of his motorcade and quickly boarded AF1
We will be wheels up to Washington shortly
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 7:19 pm EST. POTUS descended the aircraft's steps minutes later and immediately turned to walk to a waiting M1.
M1 was wheels up at 7:35 and I'm now handing off to the in-town pool. My thanks to Andrew Restuccia of the WSJ and our other poolers. Have a good night
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where it's a balmy 53 degrees and sunny.
I'll be your in-town print pooler today, covering the president's departure and arrival as he heads to Wisconsin this post-State of the Union day.
Pool is currently heading out to the South Lawn.
More TK
President Biden walked out onto the South Lawn at 10:00 a.m.
There's a crowd of about 50 people on the other side of the pool here to watch the departure.
He immediately turned and gestured to them and started working the crowd. He's sporting his aviators.
The president walked the length of the rope line, clasping people's hands. He gave a hug to a blonde woman near the end of the line and took a selfie with her.
He waved at the pool as questions were shouted about his SOTU performance and the Republicans heckling him.
He was on board Marine One at 10:05 a.m.
Pooler spotted Bruce Reed and Karine Jean-Pierre following him onto Marine One. I expect the WH will send a full list.
Marine One was wheels up at 10:09 a.m.
And as promised - the list of folks who boarded Marine One:
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press for Secretary
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One in 2 minutes
Your in-town pool has been called to gather for the president's arrival on the South Lawn.
Marine One landed 
President Biden disembarked the chopper 
He saluted, walked across the lawn and ignored pool's questions on a Europe trip for the war anniversary and whether Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene should be censured. He waved in acknowledgment instead.
He was inside the White House 
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press for Secretary
The White House called a lid 
Have a great night!