 – The Department of Commerce's National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) said in a new report Wednesday that the current mobile app store model is harmful to consumers and developers, and recommended policy changes to fix it.
Mobile apps have become an essential tool for participation in much of daily life. Two companies – Apple and Google – act as gatekeepers over the apps that people and businesses rely on, NTIA found in its 
 report.
The companies' policies have the potential to harm consumers by inflating prices and reducing innovation.
NTIA's report and recommendations are part of the Biden administration's push to promote innovation and competition, and to level the economic playing field. NTIA is the president's principal advisor on telecommunications and Internet policy.
As President Biden wrote in his Wall Street Journal op-ed, "we need to bring more competition back to the tech sector."
"From finding directions to chatting with loved ones, apps are a critical tool for consumers and an essential part of doing business online," said 
. "It is more important than ever that the market for mobile apps remains competitive. NTIA's recommendations will make the app ecosystem more fair and innovative for everyone."
"This report identifies important ways we can promote competition and innovation in the app market, which will benefit consumers, startups, and small businesses," said 
After broad outreach, and input that included more than 150 comments from a diverse array of stakeholders, NTIA identified two key policy issues hindering a more competitive app ecosystem:
While the current app store policies do offer some benefits to consumers, including the potential for tighter security controls, the report found that the costs far outweigh the benefits and that privacy and security protections can still be achieved in a more competitive environment.
The report recommends several changes to improve the app ecosystem for users, including:
As the report notes, new legislation and additional antitrust enforcement actions are likely necessary to boost competition in the app ecosystem. The measures identified in the report will help open the app ecosystem to greater competition, innovation and potential benefits for users and developers. NTIA developed the report at the direction of President Biden's 2021 Executive Order on Competition, committing the administration to promote innovation and competition across the economy.
NTIA's recommendations, if enacted, would put fairer rules in place in the mobile app ecosystem, to the benefit of consumers and competition.