Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House where the WSJ is filling in as the print pooler for the day. Here's a reminder of today's expected events.
 
And We are gathering for the POTUS speech
POTUS remarks started at 11:54 am
Remarks are being live-streamed on the WH website.
Hello all --
Biden wrapped up his remarks on the border at 12:19 p.m. He took several questions at the end including one about Putin.
Most of the remarks were on camera, but as he left the room, he was asked if he was still monitoring the Speaker's race.
POTUS said: "I'm following with great ..." and then he paused, smiled a bit and turned to Vice President Harris.
Harris offered: "attention."
Biden then finished his sentence, saying: "attention."
Biden and Harris then left the Roosevelt Room.
The White House called a lunch lid at 12:35 p.m.
It will last until 2:30 p.m.
Pool is waiting to be ushered into the Cabinet meeting for the spray.
We are heading in now to the cabinet meeting
The pool was ushered into a crowded Cabinet room around 3:15 p.m. Pool ushered out around 3:27 p.m.
POTUS, seated in the middle, gave remarks at the top. He lightly engaged in a few questions after including one on J6.
POTUS: "Right now the war in Ukraine is at a critical point," Biden said. "We have to do everything we can to help the Ukrainians resist Russian aggression."
Biden said the Russians are "not letting up at all."
Biden said he had a "long discussion" with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz "about Ukraine and our alliances in Europe."
"We're going to increase the support for Ukraine," Biden said, describing his conversation with Sholtz.
POTUS referenced the armored vehicles that the US is sending and said that Germany will provide Ukraine with an additional Patriot missile battery. "We're going to help defend Ukraine against Russian air attacks," Biden said.
About the Patriot system, Biden said: "They work and the Russians are beginning to realize that they function well. And they're helping a lot."
Here is a list of attendees per the White House. POTUS is not listed, but was obviously there.
The Vice President
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Secretary of the Treasury Janet Yellen
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines
U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai
Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers Cecilia Rouse
Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman
Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Arati Prabhakar
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Hello all -
This is the second and final part of the Cabinet meeting pool report
"The big laws we passed were consequential, but they're basically promises," POTUS said. "They're now the law, they're going to happen, but they didn't take effect."
"Details matter and being responsive to the American public obviously matters a great deal," Biden said.
He touted legislation that caps the monthly cost of insulin for some seniors, new rules aimed at discouraging price hikes to medicine and incentives for Americans to make homes more energy efficient.
"Folks need to know how to take advantage of these benefits that we've passed," Biden said.
The president also said his administration has been mindful of finding ways to pay for new initiatives. "This idea that we're big spenders and just blew the deficit is wrong," Biden said.
Biden also noted major investments by chip companies in various facilities around the country.
ON THE FTC
"The Federal Trade Commission is going to take a huge step forward in banning non compete agreements that are designed simply to lower people's wages," Biden said.
Biden said there should be a distinction between non-compete contracts for high skilled laborers and those who have less specialized knowledge. He said, for example, he didn't understand what should prevent a worker from one fast food chain to go work for a different one that offered more money.
"What the hell is that all about other than keeping wages down?" Biden said.
ON JOBS
Biden said "we're exporting products instead of exporting jobs."
ON INFLATION
"We're seeing signs inflation is easing," Biden said. "It doesn't mean it's all over, it means we're off to a pretty good darn start."
Hello all -
Pool is loaded in the motorcade.
The destination is unknown as is the exact departure time.
Pool has been advised that the trip is not medical related or church.
POTUS left the White House at 5:48 pm
Destination remains unknown.
The motorcade arrived at 5:57 at the Vatican embassy, formally called the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See
Pool entered the Vatican embassy around 6 pm.
While in the embassy pool observed Biden greeting several Vatican officials.
"It's a great honor," Biden said to one of the officials.
"I used to be your neighbor across the street," Biden said, a reference to his time as Vice President when he lived at the nearby Naval Observatory.
Potus then sat down at a desk and spent about five minutes writing a note in the condolence book for Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI.
Biden the pool was ushered out of the Vatican embassy at 6:10 pm.
The WH has said they will send a copy of Biden's inscription, which the pool will pass on.
Also seeking some additional audio from boom mic holders.
POTUS is still in the diplomatic mission. Pool is outside in a van.
*
From the WH
The President is visiting the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See to sign the condolence book for Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI.
After signing the condolence book, the President greeted with:
Archbishop Christophe Pierre
Msgr. Seamus Horgan
Msgr. John Paul Pedrera
Pool left the Vatican embassy at 6:32 pm.
We are heading back to the White House.
POTUS returned to the WH at 6:41.
WH called a lid, but the Biden note is still expected.
From the White House:
The President wrote the following note in the condolence book for Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI:
"Together with Roman Catholics across the United States, I join in mourning the passing of Pope Emeritus Benedict. He was a brilliant scholar and truly Holy Man.
I will always cherish our time together at the Vatican when he was Pope discussing Catholic theology. He was a great theologian and I learned much in a few hours.
May his soul rest eternally with the Lord."