Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from a brisk Washington. Pool call time is 7:15am. Flagging that FLOTUS' Mohs surgery procedure is today.
Reminder of today's schedule:
Pool is gathering at Palm Room Doors for South Lawn departure.
POTUS said he spoke with Buttigieg on FAA, they don't know the cause. Planes can still land safely, but they cannot take off. Verbate to come.
Marine One took off at 7:50am with POTUS and FLOTUS.
From press office:
This morning, the President will accompany the First Lady to Walter Reed National Medical Center for her scheduled outpatient procedure, commonly known as Mohs surgery.
"I just spoke with Buttigieg. They don't know what the cause is. But I was on the phone with him (garbled). I told them to report directly to me when they find out. Aircraft can still land safely, just not take off right now. They don't know what the cause of it is, they expect in a couple of hours they'll have a good sense of what caused it and will respond at that time."
Two-minute warning for the briefing
It's being streamed live online
Briefing ends at 3:24
Gathering at Palm room doors for South Lawn arrival
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 4:52pm.
POTUS got off the plane wearing a mask. He didn't respond to any shouted questions. He is returning to the residence.
FLOTUS did not return with him and will return later today, per last supplemental pool report.
White House called a lid at 5:10 pm
From WH:
The President called Virginia State Senator-elect Aaron Rouse to congratulate him on his election.
From Vanessa Valdivia, Press Secretary for the First Lady:
The First Lady returned to the White House earlier this evening following her outpatient Mohs surgery. She's doing well and in good spirits. She sends her love and gratitude to all the doctors and nurses at Walter Reed for their expertise, care, and kindness, and appreciates all those who have sent her well-wishes and prayers.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One arrived at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center at 7:58 am.
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off and got into the Beast.
As noted: This morning, the President will accompany the First Lady to Walter Reed National Medical Center for her scheduled outpatient procedure, commonly known as Mohs surgery.
At 8:02 am motorcade is rolling.
The motorcade arrived at hospital entrance at 8:04 am.
Pool did not see POTUS and FLOTUS exit the motorcade.
Pool is holding.
Sending an update that the pool is still holding at Walter Reed with no updates on timing or any additional information.
The pool hold has been uneventful except for when the Red Cross therapy dogs walked by, providing some much appreciated snuggle time.
From the East Wing:
The First Lady's procedure is proceeding well and as expected. Dr. O'Connor will provide an update later today.
From the White House:
The President connected with Governor Newsom. The Governor thanked the President for his swift action on the emergency declaration and appreciate the on-going collaboration with FEMA and federal partners.
Jill Biden's press secretary Vanessa Valdivia sent the attached memo from Dr. O'Connor.
As attachments don't always go through the email system, please note Vanessa also tweeted the memo:
The motorcade was rolling from an entrance at Walter Reed National Military Hospital at 4:37 pm.
Pool did not see POTUS or FLOTUS.
We are rolling to Marine One landing zone.
Also staff traveling with POTUS and FLOTUS on Marine One:
Annie Tomasini and Anthony Bernal
Note: FLOTUS is not with POTUS. The EastWing said she will return to the White House separately later today.
POTUS boarded at 4:40 pm. He was wearing a suit and a face mask. Pool was too far away to shout questions.
Marine One was wheels up at 4:43 pm.
Handing POTUS over to in town pool…