Pool Reports by 
, 
First Lady Jill Biden participated in two events in Mexico City on Monday, the first day of the North American Leaders' Summit.
Both took place at the official residence of the U.S. ambassador to Mexico, Ken Salazar. (At one point during the first lady's visit, your pool asked the ambassador his views on the summit. He said nothing, gave a thumbs-up and walked off).
The first lady's office has provided background information on the two events, which I'm pasting at the end.
The first was an hour-long discussion on women's empowerment with Mexican artists, activists, and entrepreneurs.
While Dr. Biden stood behind the podium inside the residence waiting to speak, Salazar's 5-year-old granddaughter approached her with a question, which Dr. Biden later revealed to the guests: "Where is Joe Biden?"
"I get that a lot!" the first lady said, to laughter.
"Buenas dias and thank you for joining us today," Dr. Biden said in her opening remarks.
The event was open press, but here are a few snippets from her address:
"Meeting women like all of you is so inspiring to me. And that's why it's important, I think, to lift up your stories so they can inspire others as well."
"We have never been silent," she continued. "But women have been silenced. For many women around the world, simply raising their voice is a struggle and they had to fight for a seat at the table. When women are left behind or pushed out, it hurts us all. But when women get the opportunities they deserve, there's no limit to what we can do."
The guests applauded.
"Being first lady in the United States is the honor of a lifetime. But when I took on this role I knew I just couldn't give up the career that I had worked so hard to build. So, I do what we do as women: I do both. So, teaching isn't just what I do. It's part of who I am."
"I'm here today to honor you because the paths you've walked haven't been easy. You, too, have had to fight for your seat at the table. Thank you for your communities and making your country stronger each and every day."
At that, the ambassador's granddaughter, sitting on a couch nearby, spoke up: "You're welcome!"
The first lady, accompanied by a translator, then met separately with two groups of women. Sitting on couches with a group of four women, she urged them to scrunch together: "We have to get cozy," she said. "This is how women communicate."
"You talk to me; you tell me what you're doing," Dr. Biden said.
It was hard to hear the exchanges, but at one point the first lady could be heard saying: "I love that now you're able to meet with one another. Did you exchange emails?"
"Networking," one woman said. "It's called networking."
After taking pictures, she walked to a nearby round table and met with a group of eight women. At one point, she could be heard saying that it's important "always to move forward, no matter what age you are."
Your pool asked one of the participants what she thought of the first lady.
"She knows what she wants to do, and in that sense, she is quite inspiring," said Odile Cortes, 38, who lives in Monterrey. "She's not the wife of someone. She's a doctor by herself. She has her own career."
After the event, Dr. Biden went outside the residence to watch a group of local students take part in a Tochito NFL flag football practice. Navigating various obstacles – tires, blocking dummies – the children ran toward the goal line and tried to keep opponents from seizing the flags at their sides.
Dr. Biden gave some remarks afterward. In the background was a giant football emblazoned with the NFL logo.
"I'm a big supporter of the NFL," she said. "On the plane here yesterday, I was watching the Eagles beat the Giants."
Flag football teaches children "the values of respect and integrity," she said.
Sports, she added "is the international language."
"It's all about unity and believing in the same values and goals."
Next up, an art tour. Dr. Biden re-entered the residence and Salazar and his wife, Hope, showed her the impressive work displayed on walls near the main entrance. As she passed the assembled journalists, your pooler asked her view on the NFL's injuries and health scares.
"Well …" she began. Her hosts continued the tour, so we'll try to get an answer if another opportunity arises.
Here's the background from FLOTUS's office:
On Monday, January 9th, the First Lady will host a conversation on women's empowerment, building on her global work in support of women and girls and to showcase U.S. support for women's empowerment efforts, as the Biden-Harris Administration continues to advance gender equity and equality in the U.S. and around the world. 
On January 4th, 2023, the U.S. 
 its first-ever interagency U.S. Strategy on Global Women's Economic Security to support women and girls around the world, to fully, meaningfully, and equally contribute to, and benefit from, economic growth and global prosperity.
The First Lady continues her global work in support of women and girls. Most recently:
***
On Monday, January 9th, the First Lady will join local students for a Tochito NFL flag football event in Mexico City. Tochito NFL, the National Football League's flag football ("tochito") program for children and youth in Mexico, promotes gender equality and girls' empowerment. Young players from Tochito NFL programs in Mexico City will participate in a Tochito NFL skills clinic, where they will learn and practice the skills and technique of flag football. The First Lady will be joined by:
Upon arrival, the First Lady will receive a briefing from Diana Flores and Arturo Olive on the Tochito NFL program and how it supports girls and youth across Mexico. After, the First Lady and Diana Flores will visit the activity stations where the students are playing and practicing flag football skills.
Since 2000, the NFL Mexico office has operated Tochito NFL, which is a national flag football (or "tochito") program for children and youth in Mexico. The program promotes gender equality and girls' empowerment. Tochito NFL teams are made up of both girls and boys to ensure that girls, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds, have opportunities to learn and play the sport. The NFL organizes Tochito NFL flag football tournaments and clinics across Mexico and, in partnership with the Mexican government, helps schools to include flag football as part of their physical education classes. The program is in all of Mexico's 32 states. In Mexico, an estimated 3 million people play flag football.