Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning everyone,
I'm your in-town print pooler today.
This is a reminder of the schedule for the day:
[RSVP Here by 7:00 AM]
The White House has called a brunch lid until 12:15 PM.
Pre-Set for the Jan. 6 Ceremony is at 12:10 PM.
From the White House:
National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at today's press briefing to preview the President's travel to Mexico City, Mexico for the North American Leaders Summit.
Two minute warning to press briefing
The press briefing with Karine Jean-Pierre and John Kirby began at 12:50
You can watch it live at
Pool is gathering in front of the Palm Room doors for the ceremony on Jan. 6.
Two minute warning for Jan 6 ceremony
The Jan. 6 Conference is being held in the East Room.
VP and the second gentleman walked in at 2:37
Recipients walked in at 2:37-2:39
POTUS walked in at 2:39
Biden's remarks will be live streamed here:
From the White House:
The President is marking the two-year anniversary of the January 6th insurrection during a ceremony in the East Room.
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Debra Haaland, Secretary of the Interior
Arati Prabhakar, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
State and local representatives
Friends and families of Presidential Citizens Medal Award recipients
The President delivers opening remarks
The President awards the Presidential Citizens Medals
The President delivers closing remarks
Jocelyn Benson, Secretary of State of Michigan 
Rusty Bowers 
Harry Dunn 
Caroline Edwards 
Michael Fanone 
Ruby Freeman 
Aquilino Gonell 
Eugene Goodman  
Daniel Hodges 
Howard C. Liebengood (posthumous), represented by spouse Dr. Serena Liebengood
Shaye Moss 
Al Schmidt 
Brian Sicknick (posthumous), represented by his parents Charles and Gladys Sicknick
Jeffrey L. Smith (posthumous), represented by spouse Erin Smith
Biden ended the main part of his speech at 3:06
He then awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal to the recipients listed in the last email.
"May God bless your families, may God protect our troops," Biden said at 3:23 in closing remarks.
He did not stop to answer questions and left at 3:24.
There is a delay for Biden's South Lawn departure.
Please plan to gather at the Palm Room Doors at 
.
There is another delay.
Please plan to gather at the Palm Room Doors at 
.
Pool is gathering at Palm Room doors
POTUS exited the White House at 5:59 PM.
He didn't stop to take questions from the press and went to speak with staff gathered on the other side of the door.
He entered Marine One at 6:00 PM after jogging to the vehicle.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings. I am your pooler for the Wilmington portion of the president's multi-stop weekend, also set to take him to El Paso on Sunday, ahead of his summit in Mexico next week.
Having been swept and Covid tested, the pool boarded an Osprey at JBA, lifting at 5:26 pm to accompany Marine One to Delaware Air National Guard Base.
There's nothing else on the president's schedule today but do ping me with queries.
Marine One landed at a frigid, windswept DANG at 6:51 pm. The president disembarked and entered his limo.
Motorcade rolling at 6:59 pm.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard, New Castle, Delaware:
Lieutenant Colonel Mark Thomas
At 7:12 pm, following a speedy drive, POTUS' motorcade peeled off into his Wilmington residence. Pool as per usual in this location was not able to spot POTUS himself.
The White House calls a lid.