Pool Reports by 
, 
White House has called "brunch" lid until 12:30 pm.
Below, please find today's White House schedule.
 
Pool is now gathering ahead of President's meeting with his Competition Council.
According to the White House, the following officials will be in attendance:
Pool was led into the East Room at 1:19 pm, at which point the president began his prefatory remarks. He finished speaking at 1:26 pm.
The president's remarks can be viewed here:
Pool was ushered out of the East Room at 1:29 pm. Questions were shouted at the president. They were not answered.
From the White House:
"Ian Sams from the White House Counsel's Office will go to the sticks at 2pm. The press briefing will begin at 2:30pm."
To Ian Sams gaggle outside the West Wing.
Began at 2:05 pm.
Ian Sams finished speaking at 2:16 pm.
Excerpts from his remarks and answers forthcoming.
Wanted to flag a tweet from my colleague James Rosen that provides extra context into today's gaggle:
"You saw in the statement that was released by the President's personal attorney, for example, that no documents with classified markings were found in Rehoboth today."
"We've been fully cooperative. The president's been fully cooperative."
"We've been working directly with the Justice Department from the very beginning."
On whether there could be more documents: ""The Justice Department is engaged in an ongoing investigation."
On House Oversight: "We're engaging in good faith with them...we'll be cooperating in good faith with legitimate oversight."
[
]
The press briefing ended at 3:46 pm.
Details on the Biden-McCarthy meeting are forthcoming.
According to the White House, the two began their meeting at 3:17 pm.
Speaker McCarthy is about to speak with reporters outside the West Wing.
At 4:55 pm.
Excerpts coming
For chief-of-staff event.
Pool was led into the East Room, where the festivities are taking place, at 5:12 pm.
Biden, Klain and Zients have entered the East Room to sustained applause
From the White House:
The President hosts an official transition event to thank Chief of Staff Ron Klain for his tireless work and officially welcome Jeff Zients back to the White House in this role.
In attendance:
The President
Ron Klain
Jeff Zients
The president concluded his remarks at 5:36 pm.
Those remarks can be found here:
The chief of staff event concluded at 5:50 pm, at which point the pool was led out of the East Room.
Lid has been called.
An eventful day at the White House thus concludes.
The following quotes from Speaker McCarthy's gaggle outside the West Wing earlier this afternoon following his meeting with President Biden on the debt ceiling:
"The president and I had a good first meeting."
"The greatest threat to America is our debt."
"We've got a lot of revenue. We just have a spending problem."
"I've just walked out having an hour conversation with this president that I tell you in perspective was a good conversation. No agreements, no promises except we will continue this conversation."
"The Republicans are very united" [in wanting to curb spending]...But we're all Americans. And we all have to work together.