Pool Reports by 
, 
 
Pool is gathering now for the president's remarks on the economy.
You can watch them here- 
Two minute warning to the president's remarks.
Just got another 2 minute warning
Remarks are starting now
Remarks wrapped.
Biden answered a question about the second batch of classified documents found in Wilmington. And he said the First Lady is "doing really well" and is recovering.
Pool is gathering to depart for the Washington National Cathedral.
Biden is slated to speak at a memorial service for Ash Carter, former secretary of Defense.
Motorcade is rolling to the cathedral now.
Motorcade arrived at the cathedral at 11:17am.
We did not see Biden enter.
Passing along from the White House-
Traveling with the President en route the Washington National Cathedral:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Deputy National Security Advisor
Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Tarun Chhabra, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Technology & National Security
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation
Biden rose to speak at 11:41am.
Biden's remarks on Carter wrapped at 11:58am.
The service is being played on C-SPAN.
Some quotes below—
"You lose someone you love so suddenly, someone who should have had so many years ahead of him."
"Thank you for sharing Ash with us," Biden said to the family.
"he did make a difference."
"a force made up of warriors who are safer because of Ash's determination to protect them... a force and a department forever shaped by Ash's far-reaching vision and his relentless, relentless innovation. He believed, as I do, what America can achieve when we put our minds to it."
Said that Carter was a truth seeker, teacher, and that he never let politics color his recommendations
"Above all, Ash had an unmistakable commitment to his troops."
"Ash understood at his core that we had a sacred, sacred obligation to give them what they need, support they need when we send them into harms' way."
"its amazing what he did with his background as a scientist, he got it done and he literally saved I think… hundreds of thousands of lives."
"He protected our servicemembers futures because he was out defending ours. How many servicemembers are alive today, welcoming child of their own, because of Ash Carter?"
"Ash's connection to our troops and their families was more than a professional duty. To him, it was personal."
Biden said that Carter couldn't have been the man or mentor he was without his wife, Stephanie.
"May we continue to carry the legacy of Ash in our hearts… and may we always seek the truth, may we always strive to be of service."
Passing along from the WH-
The press briefing will now take place at 2:30pm, and NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby will join to preview the President's bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Japan tomorrow.
Sec. Austin spoke after President Biden at the service.
Secs. Blinken and McDonough are listed in the program as readers.
Some quotes from Austin below—
"Ash Carter was both a brilliant speaker and a bold leader."
"Ash's scientific mindset drove him to aways face facts, especially painful ones. So, as the president noted, he took on the DOD bureaucracy whenever it lagged behind."
"Ash always put the troops first," he said, noting that Carter ended the ban on transgender troops.
"America is more secure because of Ash's intellect and leadership. But, above all, Ash's loved ones will remember him for his huge heart."
"Ash was always a man in a hurry but he always made time to teach and mentor."
"Ladies and gentlemen, we lost Ash Carter way too soon and we can never know how much time is left to us. So, let us resolve as he would have wanted, to turn that time into a season of service."
The service ended at 1:15pm.
Pool did not see Biden leave. Motorcade is rolling back to the White House.
Motorcade returned to the White House.
Reminder that the briefing is now scheduled for 2:30pm.
2 minutes to the briefing.
The briefing lasted for an hour and 3 minutes.
Kirby joined the briefing and took questions for the first 23 mins.
The White House has called a lid.
Have a good night, all!