Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon all,
I'll be your pooler for the VP's awarding of the Congressional Space Medal of Honor this afternoon.
The honorees entered the treaty room at 4:33 to applause and the VP followed wearing a black suit and white blouse. She began speaking to start the ceremony.
The pool was tested and is gathered in the Indian Treaty Room of the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Some background on the ceremony is below.
It is being streamed on 
, so will send highlights and color here.
Inside the room on a small stage, a podium and a small table holding the medals are set up for the ceremony. When pool entered, the room was filled with rows of chairs and people — about 75 milling around and chatting, several in uniform. Your pooler spotted Sen. Mark Kelly, another former astronaut, in the front row. NASA Administrator Bill Nelson entered the room shortly before the ceremony began along with the awardees' families.
Today at 4:25PM ET, Vice President Harris, Chair of the National Space Council, will present the Congressional Space Medal of Honor on behalf of President Joe Biden to NASA astronauts Douglas Hurley (Col, USMC, Ret.) and Robert Behnken (Col, USAF, Ret.) for their bravery and leadership as test pilots in the inaugural NASA Commercial Crew mission (Demo-2) to the International Space Station (ISS) in 2020. The ceremony will be livestreamed onWhitehouse.gov/live.
In May of 2020, Hurley and Behnken became the first astronauts to launch to orbit from the United States in almost nine years. Demo-2 marked a new era of spaceflight, with American astronauts on American rockets launching from American soil. It was also the first crewed launch for SpaceX, and the culmination of a decade of hard work in NASA's Commercial Crew Program.
A key priority of the 2010 Obama-Biden National Space Policy was to transition from a U.S. government-owned and operated human spaceflight capability (i.e. the Space Shuttle program) to a public-private partnership whereby the U.S. relied on commercial providers for crew transport to and from the ISS. NASA has contracted two companies to provide crew capsules: SpaceX and Boeing. SpaceX was the first to develop capabilities leading to the Demo-2 mission. Since the success of Demo-2 mission, five crewed missions have been launched to the ISS carrying 13 American and 7 international astronauts.
The Congressional Space Medal of Honor was authorized by Congress in 1969 to recognize "any astronaut who in the performance of his duties has distinguished himself or herself by exceptionally meritorious efforts and contributions to the welfare of the nation and mankind." Since its inception, the honor has been awarded to 28 people. Of those 28 heroes, 17 received this award posthumously (the crews of Apollo 1, Space Shuttle Challenger, and Space Shuttle Columbia).
This is the first time the Congressional Space Medal of Honor has been awarded since 2006.
The VP began by telling the story of how the space shuttle program ended years ago, but she noted that America had a future "vision" for a new era of human spaceflight, which today's honorees helped launch in 2020.
The launch of the SpaceX capsule was a result of "decades of know-how" and hundreds of hours of work from astronauts Behnken and Hurley.
"Millions of Americans watched that day" she said.
"We witnessed American astronauts launch an American rocket from American soil," for the first time that day, the VP said, calling it a "new chapter in the history of American space flight."
She spoke about the US' space objectives in the coming years — return Americans to the moon, fly everyday people into space.
She had three engineering students in the audience raise their hand, "who may one day" stand on the shoulders of today's astronauts.
A military aide read the citations for the awards — Hurley first, then Behnken— and the VP fastened the medals around their necks, shaking their hands. The three posed for a photo.
"Bob and Doug represent the best of our nation," the VP spoke again, referencing a reception to follow.
The ceremony ended at 4:51 and the VP left the stage.
Pool was guided out of the room. That's it from me, thanks all!