Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning! I'll be your pooler for the day.
It's currently 40 degrees here in DC. There is a brunch lid until 1 p.m.
Please don't hesitate to reach out if you have any questions.
Here's the president's schedule for today:
Pool is gathering for POTUS departure to head to Steamfitters Local 602 in Springfield, Virginia.
POTUS will deliver remarks on economic progress since he's taken office.
Pool is holding in the press vans as of 1:28 pm. Will update when the motorcade is on the move.
Motorcade rolling at 1:57 pm.
From the vans, pool saw POTUS enter the beast at 1:56 pm.
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Steamfitters Local 602 United Association Mechanical Trades School, Springfield, Virginia:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kimberly Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate Counsel
Daniel Hornung, Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications
2 min warning to Biden's remarks.
His remarks are being livestreamed at: 
A large American flag is behind the president's podium and is flanked on both sides with large blue banners that say: "President Biden's Blueprint for America."
Biden walked out on stage at 2:34 p.m., and quickly began remarks.
Passing along from the White House:
The President is delivering his first major economic speech of the year on the significant economic progress we're seeing under his leadership.
Local elected officials, labor leaders and advocates, union members, and longtime supporters.
Megan Russell, First-Year Apprentice, United Association of Plumbers Pipefitters and Steamfitters (UA)
The President
Megan Russell is a first-year apprentice at UA Steamfitters Local 602. She lives in Leonardtown, Maryland and graduated high school in 2021. Growing up, Megan always knew she wanted to do hands-on work. She would work with her father on side jobs, like electrical work and minor construction. And so she joined the union as soon as she was old enough. Right now, Megan is earning full wages and benefits while she learns the skills to prepare for a lifelong career in the trades.
President Biden ended remarks at 3:17 p.m.
The president joked that he couldn't really go in the crowd because a train is going to come by the area in 15 min and he did not want to block it.
Biden is currently doing a short photo line.
I will not be sending quotes as it was livestreamed.
Press currently holding in the vans.
Passing along from the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at Steamfitters Local 602 United Association Mechanical Trades School, Springfield, Virginia:
Representative Don Beyer (VA-08)
Jeffrey McKay, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, Fairfax County
Motorcade rolling at 3:39 pm.
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 3:59 pm.
Pool saw POTUS exit motorcade at 4 pm and enter the Oval Office.
Pool and credentialed media are gathering for the Lunar New Year Reception.
2 minute warning to Biden's remarks.
Pool was ushered in to the East Room at 5:22 pm, where attendees of the reception have already packed in.
A podium is in the middle of the room and the wall behind it is decorated with red fans. There are two big screens on each side of the podium that say Happy Lunar New Year.
Biden's remarks will be livestreamed here: 
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden walked out at 5:35 pm.
Dr. Biden spoke first, saying "we grieve with broken hearts alongside every member of this community" following the mass shootings in Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay.
Elaine Tso, CEO of Asian Services in Action, spoke next and introduced President Biden. Tso thanked the White House for hosting the first Lunar New Year event, saying "we feel seen, we feel heard."
POTUS began speaking at 5:43 pm, beginning his speech by saying he is praying for the communities of Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay.
Passing along from the White House:
In attendance for the President and the First Lady's remarks at the White House Lunar New Year Reception:
Ambassador Katherine Tai, U.S. Trade Representative
Members of the Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI) community, members of the Biden-Harris Administration, and White House senior staff
The First Lady
Elaine Tso, CEO of Asian Services in Action (ASIA)
The President
Elaine Tso serves as the CEO at Asian Services in Action (ASIA). In this role, she is responsible for leading the largest health and social services agency in the State of Ohio focused on addressing the needs of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AA and NHPIs), immigrants and refugees. ASIA's mission is to serve, support, and advocate for AA and NHPIs, and immigrants and refugees, so they prosper and flourish. Elaine supervises a leadership team responsible for direct health and social services, policy advocacy, capacity building, community engagement, and special projects. Elaine also has the responsibility for ensuring compliance of the requirements for ASIA's International Community Health Center (ICHC), a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC).
Biden ended his remarks at 5:55 pm.
During his remarks, the president held a moment of silence to honor the lives lost in Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay.
Following his remarks, Biden stepped off the stage and into the crowed to watch the Choy Wun Lion Dance Troupe, where they performed a dragon dance.
Biden exited the reception at 6:04 pm. Some reporters yelled questions to Biden, which he did not answer.
Passing along info on the troupe from the White House
The Choy Wun Lion Dance Troupe
The Choy Wun Lion Dance Troupe is a non-profit organization whose mission is to preserve and spread Chinese cultural awareness through performance arts. This group was founded in 2012 and is based out of Fairfax, Virginia. The group's name, Choy Wun, means Reaching for the Cloud, and the spirit of the name is to remind each of us to reach for the skies each and every day, whether it's lion dancing or in their personal life or career.
Lid was called at 6:15 p.m.
Have a great night!