Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning.
The White House says the press briefing today is now scheduled for 2 pm.
The White House has called a brunch lid until 1 pm.
The White House gave a two minute warning for the press briefing at 2:04 pm.
The press briefing started at 2:07 pm and concluded at 3:09 pm.
From the White House:
President Biden spoke with Mrs. RowVaughn Wells and Rodney Wells, Tyre Nichols' mother and stepfather, this afternoon to directly express his and Dr. Biden's condolences for Tyre Nichols' death. During the conversation, the President commended the family's courage and strength.
The White House has called a dinner lid until 5:15pm
Pool is gathering on the South Lawn to await the president's departure.
President Biden exited the White House at 5:49 PM.
He made some comments on Tyre Nichols. Some quotes below, please check against transcript.
He told reporters he spoke with Tyre Nichols' "mother and expressed my condolences." He said he would work with Congress to pass the George Floyd act and said he was "pleased she called for peaceful protest."
Biden said "I'm obviously very concerned" about violence but said Nichols' mother "has made a very strong plea."
He said "I told her that I have some Idea of what that loss is like."
Asked What's at stake he said "It has a lot to do with the image of America."
He boarded Marine One at 5:51 PM and was wheels up at 5:55 PM.
The White House called a lid at 6:04 PM. Below are the details on the travelers with the president to Camp David and I'll do one more report with some more quotes from the president.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Camp David:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary
Below are some more quotes from the President's comments about Tyre Nichols. Again check against the official transcript:
"I spoke with Tyre's mother and expressed my condolences and told her that I was going to be making the case to the Congress to pass the George Floyd Act. We should get this under control. I can only do so much on the executive order at the federal level."
"I was really pleased that she called for peaceful protest, no violence."
He said they spoke for 10 or 15 minutes.
On the potential for violence:
"I'm obviously very concerned about it. But I think she has made a very strong plea. She's obviously in enormous pain."
"I told her I had some idea of what that loss is like and although it is impossible to believe now, a time will come when his memory brings a smile before a tear."
What is at stake:
"First of all innocent people's lives, number one. Number two it has a lot to say and do with the image of America. It has a lot to do with whether or not we are the country we say we are."
From the White House:
The President arrived at Camp David at 6:30 PM.