Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from the White House, where it's a balmy and cloudy 59 degrees. Today's sked, including POTUS trip to Covington, KY, still holds:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello, stepping in as you're in town pooler today.
The president exited the residence at 9:57
He took questions on the election of the Speaker of the House, a run for 2024 and Pope Benedict.
About the Speaker of the House election he said "That's not my problem" and added that it is "embarrassing" that the process is taking so long. He added that "the rest of the world is looking" and that he himself is focused on "getting things done".
More quotes tk.
Please check against transcript and video as your pooler was not able to get clean audio for all the remarks.
He boarded at 10:01.
M1 was wheels up at 10:04.
Herewith more detailed quotes from the president on the Speaker fight
"It's a little embarrassing it's taking so long, and the way they are dealing with one another"
"The rest of the world is looking"
"What I am focused on is getting things done"
Speaking about what it means internationally he said "This is not a good look, this is not a good thing" for the country.
"I hope they get their act together"
On Pope Benedict
The president said he "admired him"
POTUS also said that he "inquired" about going to the funeral.
Stressing again: please check against transcript, as it was difficult to hear with M1 in the background and your pooler was not always near the president when he was speaking.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Greetings from a sunny, 66-degree day in Washington, DC.
I'll be your travel pool reporter for POTUS trip to Covington, KY to talk about his infrastructure law.
There are no changes to POTUS schedule, which is below.
Also, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu will hold a press gaggle on AF1. Link below
POTUS schedule for KY trip
M1 carrying POTUS landed at JBA at 10:15
He boarded AF1 at 10:18
POTUS did not take questions from the pool, but waved to the press.
Your pooler is now boarding in anticipation of Wheels Up
Per the White House, here is who is traveling with POTUS today.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, Hebron, Kentucky:
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Former Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications
Wheels up at 10:27.
Press gaggle to begin shortly. You can listen here
AF1 landed in Hebron Kentucky at 11:30.
POTUS walked off AF1 at 11:47.
He shook hands and smiled at the greeting officials, including Sen. McConnell, who smiled back and chatted briefly with POTUS
List of greeters below. POTUS entered vehicle at 11:51
Pool is boarding motorcade bus.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport, Hebron, Kentucky:
Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky
Britainy Beshear, Spouse of Governor Andy Beshear
Will and Lila, Children of Governor Andy Beshear and Britainy Beshear
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY)
Mike DeWine, Governor of Ohio
Frances DeWine, Spouse of Governor Mike DeWine
The motorcade began rolling at 11:54, presumably moving toward our destination in Covington, KY.
POTUS remarks are still scheduled for 12:45 and can be watched on White House live.
The pool arrived near the Brent Spence Bridge at12:10. Pool is holding in a parking lot.
The pool has not laid eyes on POTUS since arriving in Covington
Lots of pedestrians filming the motorcade and one enthusiastic pedestrian held a sign that said "Biden Got it Done." She gave the motorcade to thumbs up.
Per White House
Participating in a photoline with the President in Covington, Kentucky:
Rep. Greg Landsman (OH-1)
Jacqueline Coleman, Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky
Joseph Meyer, Mayor of Covington, Kentucky
Aftab Pureval, Mayor of Cincinnati, Ohio
Gary Moore, Judge/Executive of Boone County, Kentucky
Stephanie Summerow Dumas, President of Hamilton County, Ohio
Per the White House
Correction to photo line: Rep. Landsman was not in attendance.
Sorry for any confusion.
The event started at 12:29 with Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear speaking.
The President is delivering remarks at Brent Spence Bridge on how his economic plan is rebuilding our infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs that don't require a four-year degree, and revitalizing communities left behind.
Local and state officials, constituents, members of Congress and members of the administration and community members
Andy Beshear, Governor of Kentucky
Mike DeWine, Governor of Ohio
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Former Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (KY)
Saria Gwin-Maye, Member of Ironworkers Local 44
The President
Two minute warning issued at 1:01 for POTUS remarks
POTUS concluded his remarks at 1:19
Like the bipartisan roster of Senators and governors before him, POTUS underscored the need for bipartisanship in Washington.
Your pooler is moving toward the pool van
Some color from today's event. Lots of union worker wearing hard hats sporting their union's logos while others wore t-shirts.
While Sen. Brown was finishing his remarks and Sen. McConnell was about to start his, a strong gust of wind blew through and knocked over three American flags positioned behind the stage.
Aides ran over to set the flags upright, including using sandbags to hold them down. Those efforts were unsuccessful and they took the flags down and removed them from the stage.
Your pooler has confirmed that Sen McConnell and POTUS rode to today's event in Covington in the same car. It is unclear if they will share a ride on the way back since Sen McConnell isn't traveling aboard AF1.
Also clearing up some confusion on the bridges near the event. The bridge immediately behind POTUS during his remarks is the Clay Wade Bailey Bridge and immediately next to that is C&O Railroad Bridge.
The Brent Spence Bridge, which will be rebuilt through the infrastructure funds, was about a hundred or so feet away along the Ohio River.
The pool van is rolling at 1:52.
We are rolling unknown location, presumably back to the airport in Hebron, KY.
Your pooler did not lay eyes on POTUS ahead of departure from the Brent Spence Bridge.
The motorcade is moving towards what we've been told is an OTR location. We have crossed the river into Ohio and moving through downtown Cincinnati.
We arrived at our destination, a restaurant In Cincinnati. POTUS was greeted enthusiastically by customers.
Here is where we are
The President is visiting Just Q'in BBQ in Cincinnati, Ohio. Local businesses like this one will benefit from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law investment in Brent Spence Bridge, which will make for less traffic and safer and easier commutes.
POTUS visited the restaurant with Sen. Brown and Cincinnati Mayor Aftab Puerval.
POTUS chowed down on brisket plate and held up a t-shirt from the restaurant.
"It's really good. Seriously," POTUS said when asked about the brisket.
Photos posted on my Twitter feed @JeffMordock
The pool van is rolling at 2:22 back to the airport in Hebron, KY.
Also a correction to Pool Report #17 — POTUS was chowing down on peach cobbler. That's what he said was really good.
He did order the Brisket plate, however. Per the restaurant cashier. Sorry for the confusion.
The motorcade arrived at the airport in Covington at 2:44
POTUS boarded AF1 at 2:47.
POTUS took questions from press on McConnell and NFL, China and COVID quotes to follow
Also this from the White House
The President ordered brisket, potato salad, macaroni and cheese, jalapeño cornbread, and peach cobbler.
Q:What did you and McConnell talk about;
POTUS -/ We talked about foreign policy, Ukraine and a bunch of other stuff
Q:Are you going to the border?
POTUS; That's my intention
Q: Is NFL getting too dangerous
A: inaudible "I don't know how you avoid (inaudible) they are working like hell on helmets
Q: are you worried about not having a functioning House of Representatives?
POTUS "it's embarrassing" the rest was inaudible
Wheels up at 2:56
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Mitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator
Former Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy and Outreach
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications
AF1 was wheels down at 3:55.
POTUS stepped off plane at 4:03. He did not take questions
M1 took off at 4:0
That's all from your out-of-town pooler, passing it back to the in-town pool.
HUGE shout out to Steve Holland of Reuters and Hailey Fuchs of Politico. Both were huge helps with quotes and identifying local politicians.
And here is POTUS' answer to an earlier question about whether the NFL is too dangerous.
"I don't know how you avoid it. I think working like hell on the helmets and the concussion protocols, that all makes a lot of sense. But ... it is dangerous. We've got to just acknowledge it."
My last report forgot to include that M1 lifted off from JBA at 4:10.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary Now that's all from your travel pooler.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello all,
I'm subbing in for in town pool this afternoon. We have an early call time since things are running ahead of schedule. Gathered now at the Palm Room Doors and moving to the South Lawn.
M1 landed at 4:21 pm and the president exited a few minutes later. Salutes and a motion to move right toward the Rose Garden, which your pool frantically did in order to get a short gaggle.
He took questions on border security saying he wanted to see "peace and security" and is "going to see what's going on" in a visit. He said he'll give give a speech on the topic tomorrow.
On whether McCarthy should give up his bid he said "that's up to him."
He also took a question on Damar Hamlin and said "I spoke with his mother and father." Fleshing out quotes now and will add anything if I get more info of note.
Wait till the transcript to confirm audio on this one. My otter from that is bunk.
On Hamlin: "I spoke with his mother and father at length"
"What do you want to see when you go the border?"
"Should Kevin McCarthy drop his bid for speaker?"
"What is your message to Damar Hamlin and his family?"
Called at 4:59 p.m. That's all folks!