 Will the United States provide F-16s to Ukraine?
 No.
Will you be going to Europe for the war's anniversary?
Catholic bishops are demanding that Federal tax dollars not fund abortions.
 No, they are not all doing that. Nor is——
Catholic bishops are——
 Nor is——
——demanding that Federal tax——
 Nor is the Pope doing that.
What are you going to tell Speaker McCarthy? When he said he wants to negotiate, what do you say?
 Show me your budget, I'll show you mine.
Mr. President, what is your message—what is your message to Leader McCarthy—to Speaker McCarthy? Sorry, sir. What would be your message?
 Show me your budget, I'll show you mine.
Do you have any plans to meet with the Congressional Black Caucus on police reform? They're asking for a meeting.
 Oh, yes. No, of course, I will. Look, I haven't set the time yet.
Do you still think the George Floyd Act is the most reasonable——
 I do.
——legislation to get through a divided Congress?
 I think we should do it right now. We should have done it before.
As you know, I did it by Executive order for the Federal side. But I can't do it otherwise without the help of the rest of the Congress.
One other. If the—if the—Special Counsel, who's starting this week, asks for your testimony, would you give testimony?
 Oh, I don't even know about the Special Counsel.
Did you talk with the Dutch—thank you, sir. Dutch Prime Minister today—[
]. Did you speak with the Dutch Prime Minister?
 I apologize, I——
Can you talk about the—you talked with the Dutch Prime Minister today, right? Dutch Prime Minister?
 Yes, the Dutch Prime Minister. Yes.
Did you talk about Japanese-Dutch-U.S. agreement about semiconductor issue, or what you talk about?
 Yes. Yes, we talked about a lot of things, but a lot of it is private.
Mr. President, are you considering trip to Poland next month?
 I'm going to be going to Poland. I don't know when though.
And what about Ukraine? What about Ukraine?
Should you take a new approach to community policing? Are your views on policing changing——
 No.
——being based on what's happening—happened?
 Everybody else's views got—getting towards mine. And we need community policing, where the police know the community, have a relationship with the community, know who lives where.
And they need additional help in terms of having psychologists and psychiatrists on their teams. They need a lot more.
Have you decided on the new NEC Director, sir?
What was going through your mind when you saw the Tyre Nichols video?
Sir, for the war's anniversary——
Have you decided to go to Europe, sir, for the anniversary?
 I'm not sure.