Across the country, local outlets are reporting about how President Biden's economic agenda is delivering results that the American people can see and feel in their own backyard.

This week, the Biden-Harris administration announced new state-by-state estimates of the number of seniors who stand to benefit from the $35 cap on a month's supply of Insulin for Medicare recipients thanks to President Biden's Inflation Reduction Act.
 Cabinet members and senior administration officials fanned out across the local airwaves to tout strong GDP growth, the nationwide manufacturing boom, and record low unemployment in several states – from Pennsylvania to New Mexico to Alaska.

The administration also announced record-breaking Affordable Care Act signups during this year's open enrollment period as well as funding from President Biden's American Rescue Plan which will expand access to affordable internet for families in Nevada, Kentucky, Alabama, and Texas.





 The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced Tuesday that a new law that caps monthly out-of-pocket insulin costs for Medicare beneficiaries at $35 will likely save more than $36 million in yearly costs for more than 72,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Ohio.

 The White House estimates that Tennesseans on Medicare who take insulin will save on average $494 per year with the new $35 monthly out-of-pocket spending cap on the drug, a provision of the Inflation Reduction Act that's now in effect.

 The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services estimated that a $35 cap on monthly insulin costs for Medicare enrollees that took effect Jan. 1, will save Georgians over $21 million.

 Insulin will cost no more than $35 a month for people with prescription drug coverage through Medicare, a rule change that is expected to save people with diabetes hundreds of dollars a year... In Pennsylvania, nearly 80,200 people stand to save an average of $543 a year. And in New Jersey, about 39,600 insulin users with Medicare could save an average of $511 a year, according to HHS estimates.

 Medicare recipients won't have to pay more than $35 a month for insulin, and that should save nearly 40,000 New Jersey residents an average of $511 a year, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said Tuesday.

 More than 36,000 Virginians with diabetes will collectively save $18.6 million a year on the purchase of insulin under federal legislation that capped the out-of-pocket cost at $35 a month.

 Seniors enrolled in Medicare will start seeing the monthly price for insulin capped at $35 as parts of a federal law go into effect this year. Under the new health provision, a federal agency estimates that thousands in Connecticut could see lower out-of-pocket costs for the life-saving drug.

 Insulin-dependent seniors are getting some unexpected relief, thanks to president Biden's inflation reduction act. At the start of this year, a cap of $35 was placed on a monthly supply of insulin for seniors.



 Biden spoke about the country's economic outlook in Virginia Thursday after the news that the U.S. economy grew by 2.9% in the last year, as inflation slowed and jobs continued to abound.

 Employment in Arkansas in December increased for the first time in six months, dropping the state's joblessness rate by one-tenth of a point to 3.6%.

 The unemployment rate continues to drop in New Mexico and last month was no exception.

 Texas led the country in new nonfarm jobs last year, according to a Tuesday report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

 Oklahoma businesses and governments added more than 47,000 workers in 2022.

 The state's total nonfarm payroll employment grew 2.4% from December 2021 to December 2022, according to the report, which shows the state at an estimated 1,689,800 total jobs.

 The Biden administration touted the development as a success in an American "manufacturing boom" under President Joe Biden, who has prioritized infrastructure investment.

 The Tesla project is expected to create 3,000 jobs in Nevada.

 Tesla intends to invest $3.6 billion in battery and electric semi-truck manufacturing in Northern Nevada, expanding the company's presence and the clean energy industry in the state, the White House said.



 A record number of Arizonans signed up for health insurance this year under the Affordable Care Act, as enrollment in the program continues to rebound from the Trump administration's efforts to suppress coverage.

 Sign-up numbers were boosted by an extension of extra tax credit subsidies for ACA plans that first started with the March 2021 passage of the 1.9 trillion American Rescue Plan. Those subsidies were set to expire at the end of 2022, but were extended… when President Joe Biden in August signed the Inflation Reduction Act.

 Florida led the way with the highest number of people in the country who signed up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act, with more than 3.2 million people enrolling, or 20 percent of the country's totals.

 A record 3.2 million Floridians signed up for health insurance plans for 2023 offered through the federal marketplaces, according to data released Wednesday by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. That's roughly 500,000 more than last year.



 Nevada is set to receive $55.2 million for broadband infrastructure from the Capital Projects Fund that is part of the Biden administration's American Rescue Plan… The broadband project in Nevada will connect more than 40,000 households and businesses to high-speed internet access.

 Kentucky is set to receive over $182 million in federal money to fund projects that would provide reliable broadband access to areas of the state that lack high-speed internet. The money will go toward infrastructure projects that will ultimately connect an estimated 45,000 homes in Kentucky.

 Alabama will receive almost $192 million in federal funds to expand broadband internet access in rural areas. The funds, part of the American Rescue Plan to help bolster the U.S. economy rebounding from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, will expand coverage to an estimated 55,000 locations across the state.

 The Treasury Department on Thursday announced the latest tranche of broadband funds from the American Rescue Plan, sending a combined $793.7 million to Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada and Texas.

 U.S. Department of the Treasury announced the approval of broadband projects in four additional states — Alabama, Kentucky, Nevada and Texas, with funding from the American Rescue plan. The funds will connect about 292,000 homes and businesses to affordable, high-speed internet.