The President and Vice President are focused on giving families breathing room, and yesterday, new actions by the Department of Health and Human Services, as well as reporting from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, demonstrate their ongoing commitment to lowering Americans’ health care costs.
Yesterday CFPB released a new 
 that shows that the number of Americans with medical debt on their credit reports fell by 8.2 million from the first quarter of 2020 to the first quarter of 2022. That change is in part because of the actions the Biden-Harris Administration took to strengthen the Affordable Care Act to expand health insurance coverage to millions more Americans and enact new consumer protections to reduce the burden of medical debt.
Also yesterday, in response to President Biden’s 
 last fall, the Department of Health and Human Services announced a 
 they plan to take to continue to lower the price of prescription drugs for more Americans.
Unfortunately, Congressional Republicans continue to push an agenda that would do the exact opposite. Their agenda would hurt Americans’ access to health care by putting Medicare on the chopping block and by repealing the Inflation Reduction Act, which would dramatically increase prescription drug costs for our seniors -- and instead shower billions of dollars on Big Pharma.
[Josh Boak, 2/14/2023]
WASHINGTON (AP) — The number of people with medical debt on their credit reports fell by 8.2 million — or 17.9% — between 2020 and 2022, according to a report Tuesday from the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
White House officials said in a separate draft report that the two-year drop likely stems from their policies. Among the programs they say contributed to less debt was an expansion of the Obama-era healthcare law that added 4.2 million people with some form of health insurance. Also, local governments are leveraging $16 million in 
 funds to wipe out $1.5 billion worth of medical debt.
There has also been a persistent effort by the CFPB to reduce medical debt. 
 that they will no longer include in their reports medical debts under $500 or debts that were already repaid. The agencies will also extend the time it takes to add medical debt to reports from six months to one year, possibly giving families more time to repay before being penalized with lower credit scores.
White House officials said the decline in debt could reduce fears about medical bills that can prevent people from making needed doctor appointments and filling pharmaceutical prescriptions.
While economic measures such as the unemployment rate and inflation can swing up and down, the decline in medical debt shows that steady progress is being made. Some 13.5% of the 279 million people with credit reports had at least one medical debt, down from 16.4% in 2020 and 19.4% in 2014.
Still, unpaid medical bills account for more than half of all debt in collections, according to the White House report. As a result, medical debt exceeds credit cards, personal loans and utilities and phone bills combined.
There is also evidence that the decline predates the Biden presidency. The amount of medical debt on credit reports fell to $111 billion from $143 billion between 2018 and the first half of 2021, according to a March 2022 report by the CFPB.
But communities such as Chicago, New Orleans, Pittsburgh and Toledo, Ohio, are using $16 million in funds from the 2021 coronavirus relief to buy medical debt and forgive it. So far, the spending plans are eliminating $1.5 billion in medical debt, a ratio of about 100-to-1 for the expenditures by the local governments.
[Maya Goldman, Caitlin Owens, 2/15/2023]
The Biden administration unveiled three drug payment programs Tuesday aimed at helping reduce patients' out-of-pocket costs, including one that would potentially lower Medicare payments for promising treatments approved by the FDA before clinical trials are complete.
 The models wade into some of the most timely drug pricing issues of the day, and could boost President Biden's political arsenal for 2024.
In October, Biden 
, which runs experiments on new ways to deliver and pay for health care, to study how it can use its authority to lower drug costs.
 The three programs focus on different classes of treatments and coverage.
 would try to incentivize manufacturers to complete timely clinical trials to confirm accelerated-approval drugs work by adjusting how much Medicare pays for the products.
The Innovation Center has not ruled out requiring drug manufacturers to participate in the program testing new ways to pay for accelerated-approval drugs.
 The payment programs, if enacted, would become some of the Biden administration's most notable drug pricing policies made without Congress.
The center wants to begin the program that lowers drug copayments as soon as operationally feasible, and the Medicaid cell and gene therapy program could launch by 2026.