Pool Reports by 
, 
Hello all,
The White House called a lunch lid until 3.30pm.
The daily guidance shows one item for POTUS today:
Members of the pool sprinted to press vans outside the south portico and the motorcade departed at 3.33pm for an OTR.
Shoppers in Georgetown stopped and stared as the motorcade went by, and at least one street was blocked by a police car. Pool stopped at 35th and N Street and saw POTUS walk up steps into the grounds of Holy Trinity Catholic Church at 3.43pm. From a distance, it sounds like there is cheering and whooping inside. Curious members of the public are gathering nearby.
POTUS, wearing a black jacket, emerged from the church grounds at 4.49pm. He waved to the pool and onlookers from afar but did not respond to shouted questions about spy balloons.
Motorcade is now rolling through Georgetown.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 4.59pm. POTUS walked into the south portico at 5pm.
A dinner lid was called until 6.50pm.
Pool has gathered at Palm Room doors ahead of the Governors dinner.
Pool is in the State Dining Room, where guests are seated at round tables with purple table cloths for a black tie dinner. Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, Governor Gretchen Whitmer and Governor Jay Inslee are among those immediately visible.
POTUS, wearing black tie, entered at 7.27pm and began speaking, saying governors get things done. "You can't put it off, say we're going to debate it for six months."
Remarks are continuing.
POTUS spoke for 10 minutes and did not mention the flying objects over Alaska or Canada.
Remarks included:
"I said I wanted to be president for everybody. Not just blue states or red states."
"When we work together we're able to get things done."
"I think we've made some bipartisan progress."
He cited the bipartisan infrastructure law. "The most important thing we have to do is let people know what we've done."
He said America should "lead the world again".
"Governor Cox. I promise I won't tell anybody how much I like you."
"We're the United States of America. We can get big things done if we do it together."
More to follow. Governors Cox and Murphy spoke next.
From the White House press office:
The President and the First Lady are welcoming Governors and their spouses for a black-tie dinner at the White House.
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Secretary Tom Vilsack, Department of Agriculture
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
Secretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of Energy
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland Security
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget
Jeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Governor Phil Murphy, New Jersey and National Governors Association Chair
Governor Spencer Cox, Utah and National Governors Association Vice Chair
Governor Lemanu Mauga, American Samoa
Governor Ned Lamont, Connecticut
Governor John Carney, Delaware
Governor Lou Leon-Guerrero, Guam
Governor Josh Green, Hawaii
Governor Brad Little, Idaho
Governor JB Pritzker, Illinois
Governor Andy Beshear, Kentucky
Governor John Bel Edwards, Louisiana
Governor Janet Mills, Maine
Governor Wes Moore, Maryland
Governor Maura Healey, Massachusetts
Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Michigan
Governor Tim Walz, Minnesota
Governor Greg Gianforte, Montana
Governor Chris Sununu, New Hampshire
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham, New Mexico
Governor Kathy Hochul, New York
Governor Roy Cooper, North Carolina
Governor Doug Burgum, North Dakota
Governor Arnold Palacios, Northern Mariana Islands
Governor Kevin Stitt, Oklahoma
Governor Tina Kotek, Oregon
Governor Pedro Pierluisi, Puerto Rico
Governor Dan McKee, Rhode Island
Governor Bill Lee, Tennessee
Governor Jay Inslee, Washington
Governor Tony Evers, Wisconsin
Governor Mark Gordon, Wyoming
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Lorraine Voles, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Vice President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Dr. Liz Sherwood Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Jordan Brooks, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff to the Second Gentleman
Gene Sperling, White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator & Senior Advisor to the President
John Podesta, Senior Advisor to the President for Clean Energy Innovation and Implementation
Bill McBride, Executive Director of the National Governors Association
Tiffany Waddell, Director of Government Affairs of the National Governors Association
The President
Governor Spencer Cox, Utah and National Governors Association Vice Chair
Governor Phil Murphy, New Jersey and National Governors Association Chair
This evening's entertainment will include an acoustic performance by award-winning country music artist, 
The First Lady worked with White House Executive Chef 
 and White House Executive Pastry Chef 
 on tonight's menu.
Penobscot Bay Sea Scallops
Lemon Chitarra Pasta
American Wagyu Beef
Spring Peas, Young Carrots, Heirloom Cauliflower
Tarragon Sauce
Salmon Paillard
Artichoke Carpaccio, Gremolata Crisp
Saffron Aioli
Tarentaise (Spring Brook Farm, Vermont)
Bluebird (The Grey Barn and Farm, Massachusetts)
Pleasant Ridge (Uplands Cheese Company, Wisconsin)
Spiced Winter Fruits, Honey Walnut Plank
Berry Tart
Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
St. Supéry Sauvignon Blanc "Dollarhide Estate" 2021
Crossbarn Cabernet Sauvignon "Napa Valley" 2019
McBride Sisters Sparkling Brut Rosé "Hawke's Bay"
POTUS's remarks were at times difficult to hear, especially when there was applause or laughter, so do check against the official transcript. Some highlights:
POTUS, wearing black tie, holding a microphone and standing beneath a portrait of Abraham Lincoln, said: "The thing I liked about working with governors, we used to have to get things done... I served in the Senate for a long, long time and was vice president for eight years and governors, you've got to get it done.
"You've gotta fix the potholes, you've gotta take care of crime in the streets, you've got to do everything and you can't say, we're going to put it off, we're going to debate it for about six months. It's a pleasure working with you all and Jill, Kamala and Doug and I are really happy to have you here at the White House.
"I want to thank you... Last two to six years, I mean, things have been up and down and so you really had to be on your toes, you had to be ready to answer all the questions that you get asked. As I said, I don't think it's been a tougher two years being a governor. That's why we started off with the [inaudible] piece of legislation making sure you had enough money.
"And look, the partnership that we've had - I don't want to ruin anybody's reptuations here - the partnership has been [inaudible], whether you're Republican or Democrat on things that affect your state. I said I wanted to be president for everybody, not just blue states or red states, but for everybody.
"... I know we're not going to always agree. I think we agree more than you pretend but I don't blame you... But look, I think that when we're together, we're able to get things done. I know I don't talk about bipartisanship all the time. I'm ready to fight, as you all are, and I spent a lot of time in Congress and then as vice president.
"But, you know, one thing that I found is - one of the reasons I made sure we had so many governors in my administration, and mayors, I mean this sincerely, you've got to get things done. And I kid Jennifer Granholm, if she were born in the United States, she'd be standing here talking to you... But all kidding aside, I think we've made some bipartisan progress. For example, the idea that we have over a trillion 200 billion dollars in infrastructure to rebuild this country.
"... bipartisan action and it matters, this matters. The good news is - I shouldn't say good news – the most important thing we have to do is let people know what we've done because it's just started. Like, for example, when we did the legislation dealing with pharma, people are now coming up - and I imagine they may come up to you too - and say, you mean it only costs me 35 bucks and not 450 bucks?... We pay the highest drug prices in the world but because of the number of Republicans crossing over and joining us to make sure we got the last section done, things are changing.
"... I hope we're going to get a little bit - I'm going to try - a little bit less partisan and work on things and really get down to changing people's lives. And again, we're not going to agree, we're not going to always agree, but I think when we work together, it works. And I'm not going to go into any detail about the infrastructure law or the CHIPS and Science Act.
"... I'm determined as you are... to lead the world again in manufacturing. The CHIPS and Science Act invested in America. Again, I called the governor of Illinois - I'm not joking - he encouraged me to keep moving on this because... we used to spend 2% of our GDP on research and development in America; we spend 0.7%. We used to be number one; now we're 17th. So change matters. This is the United States of America.
"... So, look, I want to thank Governor Murphy, Governor Cox for their leadership. And Governor Cox, I promise I won't tell anybody how much I like you. We will keep it quiet... Remember who in God's name we are. We're the United States of America. We can get big things done. God bless America."
Pool has gathered in the East Room, where five rows of gold leaf chairs with white cushions are facing the stage. There are about 40 people sitting down so far but most guests are yet to come. A man is strumming a guitar beneath the portrait of Martha Washington.
POTUS and VPOTUS entered the East Room to applause and cheers at 9.10pm. Other guests are now following, chatting and shakings hands.
At 9.22pm country music artist Brad Paisley, wearing a white cowboy hat, black suit and black tie, performed the song 'American Saturday Night', singing and playing guitar on stage in the East Room.
He explained: "I had to change the second line because it mentioned Russia and I don't do that any more."
(A Google search reveals the original lyrics were: 'She's got Brazilian leather boots on the pedal of her German car/ Listening to the Beatles singing, "Back in the U.S.S.R."')
Instead Paisley sang: 'She's got Brazilian leather boots on the pedal of her German car./ There's a Ukrainian flag hanging up behind the bar.'
POTUS, sitting on the front row beside FLOTUS, was among those who applauded the reference to Ukraine. Pool was escorted out of the East Room after the song and a lid was called at 9.35pm.