Pool Reports by 
, 
FLOTUS will be at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History this morning to donate both of her inaugural outfits to the institute as part of The First Ladies Collection.
She is donating two outfits - what she wore to the swearing-in ceremony at the Capitol and what she wore to the evening celebration. She's also donating the matching face masks.
This is her first public event since her Mohs surgery on January 11th.
She tweeted this morning she is glad to be back in action and thanked the doctors and nurses at Walter Reed: 
Pool arrived at event ahead of FLOTUS and is holding for the start. Several East Wing staff are also here for the ceremony. Dr. Biden's outfits are on mannequins on stage.
There is a TV pool and pooler is checking if this will air live anywhere. Meanwhile pooler will send quotes and color from the ceremony when it begins later this am.
Here is the press release from the Smithsonian announcing the donation: 
And here is background from the East Wing:
On Wednesday, January 25th, First Lady Jill Biden will present both of her ensembles worn on Inauguration Day in 2021 to the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History as part of The First Ladies Collection. The event will feature remarks by the First Lady and the designers of her ensembles, Alexandra O'Neill, Founder and Designer of Markarian, and Gabriela Hearst, Founder and Creative Director of Gabriela Hearst.
The First Ladies Collection with Dr. Biden's inaugural attire will be open to the public starting tomorrow, Thursday, January 26th at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. Dr. Biden's featured inaugural attire will include:


A comprehensive press release with additional information about the ensembles and the exhibit will be issued by the Smithsonian at approximately 12:00 PM today.
Jill Biden took the stage at 12:11 pm.
Pool is in the back of the room so could not see if she had any signs of the bruising/swelling that Dr. Kevin O'Connor said FLOTUS experienced after her Mohs surgery.
Spotted in audience: FLOTUS sisters Kim, Kelly, and Bonny; Ashley Biden; granddaughters Finnegan and Naomi Biden; Valerie Biden Owens; FLOTUS' nieces Missy and Casey; and WH director of Oval Office Operations Annie Tomasini (thanks to AP's Darlene Superville for the help spotting Bidens and the East Wing staff for IDs).
The program for the event had lovely designer sketches of Dr. Biden's outfits. Since attachments don't go through your pooler tweeted pics of the program: 
Let me know if you need me to send you the photo directly.
Ceremony is just starting. More tk…
Here are some quotes from the ceremony. As always please check against the official transcript:
Lonnie G. Bunch III, Secretary, SmithsonianInstitution said of FLOTUS: "She will be remembered as the first First Lady to keep her day job."'
Gabriela Hearst said of FLOTUS: "As a designer I could not think of a better muse."
Dr. Biden: "This day is so much more emotional than I imagined it to be."
She also addressed the mass shootings in California, saying her "heart" is with California as "they try to heal from the pain."
She said of Hearst: "She always pushes me to try new things and just step out of my comfort zone - time and time again. And I think that there's no way that I'm going to like her suggestion. She's right and I love it."
More: "I did not need any convincing about the design of this dress. My focus on Inauguration Day was being a First Lady for all Americans, doing my part to bring our country back together."
She noted the inclusion of her face masks: "Of course both outfits feature something that will no doubt … set them apart from the other displays here at the museum - matching masks. As you know they're just pieces of small cloth, but they represent the enormity of what we all faced at the time: a pandemic that has changed our world forever."
FLOTUS also talked about the role fashion plays: "When I became first lady, I knew that people would start to care a lot more about what I wore. And there have been times when I welcomed that spotlight because I knew that my clothes could help me say something important. Like when I wore my vote boots on election day, and my "Love" jacket during our first trip overseas. And then the more mundane times when I wore a scrunchy to the bakery and it ended up on the nightly news."
This line got a lot of applause, Dr. Biden: "I look forward to adding some men's wear to this gallery in the future as well."
She then hugged the designers and Smithsonian officials on stage with her.
She also posed for photos with her dresses and the two designers.
Program ended at 12:39 pm.
C-SPAN has posted video of the ceremony: 
Here is the Smithsonian press release on the event: 