Pool Reports by 
, 
Bonjour on this pleasant feels-almost-like-spring morning. Your pooler stands ready to bring you up-to-the-minute updates of presidential Valentine's Day activity.
Here is your first: the effective call time has been moved to 1215.
("Effective" because the actual call time for the pool was moved last night to 0700. But early this morning a breakfast lid was announced until 0930 (the original call time), and just a few minutes ago this was extended to 1215.
For those who chronicle this stuff.)
A reminder of today's schedule: The president is speaking to the National Association of Counties at 1315, followed by press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre's daily briefing at 1430.
Both events are open press and will be live-streamed. Links are here: 
Here is the schedule from the daily guidance issued last night:
— Palm Room Doors)
Be aware that the press briefing time is subject to adjustments, based on when we get back from the Hilton.
Pool loaded onto their designated vans on the South Lawn driveway at 1226 and are now awaiting departure for the National Association of Counties event at the Washington Hilton.
The president's remarks, scheduled for 1315, are open press and will be live-streamed from the White House web site.
The president's motorcade is rolling at 1322, en route the Washington Hilton.
There was a repositioning at 1312, to move the limo in front of the West Wing, rather the South Portico, where it had been. The president walked out of the Oval and got into the car at 1321.
The 1.5 mile drive should take about 5 minutes.
Via the WH press office:
Traveling with the President via motorcade to the National Association of Counties at the Washington Hilton Hotel:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
President Biden arrived at the Washington Hilton at 1327 following a quick ride up Connecticut Avenue in his limousine.
By the time pool could get from the vans, way at the back of the motorcade, to the hotel, he was already inside.
Pool was led to the main ballroom.
Biden's remarks are set to begin at 1315. They are open press and will be live-streamed from the White House web site.
From the WH press office:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the National Association of Counties:
Denise Winfrey, County Board Member for Will County, Illinois and National Association of Counties (NACo) President
Mary Jo McGuire, County Commissioner for Ramsey County, Minnesota (District 2) and NACo First Vice President
James Gore, Supervisor for Sonoma County, California (District 4) and NACo Second Vice President
Larry Johnson, County Commissioner for Dekalb County, Georgia (District 3) and NACo Immediate Past President
Joe Briggs, County Commissioner for Cascade County, Montana (District 1) and NACo Regional Representative for the West Region
Ron Berry, County Commissioner for Roane County, Tennessee (District 1) and NACo Regional Representative for the South Region
Mark Poloncarz, County Executive for Erie County, New York and NACo Regional Representative for Northeast Region
Toni Preckwinkle, Board President, Cook County, Illinois
John O'Grady, County Commissioner, Franklin County, Ohio
Greg Puckett, County Commissioner, Mercer County, West Virginia
Matt Meyer, County Executive for New Castle County, Delaware
Johnny Olszewski, County Executive for Baltimore County, Maryland
Chris Rodgers, County Commissioner for Douglas County, Nebraska and NACo Past President
Lina Hidalgo, County Judge for Harris County, Texas
Phil Armstrong, County Executive for Lehigh County, Pennsylvania
Dow Constantine, County Executive for King County, Washington
Andy Brown, County Judge for Travis County, Texas
Caroline Rice, County Commissioner for Montgomery County, Ohio
Bill Truex, County Commissioner for Charlotte County, Florida
Ann Howard, County Commissioner for Travis County, Texas
Matthew Chase, Chief Executive Officer/Executive Director for NACo
From the WH press office
In attendance for the President's keynote address at the National Association of Counties:
Members of the National Association of Counties (NACo)
Denise Winfrey, County Board Member for Will County, Illinois and NACo President
The President
To the president's remarks.
The president took the stage in the ballroom* at 1352.
He began his remarks at 1353. This is an open press event**, and it is being live-streamed from the White House web site.
* Yes, the same one used by the WHCA for its annual dinners.
** This is a hint that I will not be transcribing his speech for you.
The president wrapped up his remarks at 1422, reading the main portion of his speech off two teleprompters arranged on either side his lectern.
The bulk of his 28 minutes on stage were spent on the benefits of his legislation for the country, particularly for local governments, including counties. He pointed out that his American Rescue Plan made sure to include counties for relief money, while the CARES Act, passed in 2020, had not required this.
Many of the points he made were those common to his speeches for the past several months, including State of the Union address last week.
He referred to the speech and the reaction he drew from Republicans when he said that some of them wanted to cut Social Security and Medicare.
"It was sort of fascinating. It felt like I was back on the playground."
He began with a joke about his own political origins in Delaware: "I ran for the United States Senate because being a county councilman was too hard."
He then spoke about the latest mass shooting, the previous evening, on the campus of Michigan State University, which was the eve of the fifth anniversary of the massacre at Parkland High School in South Florida.
"It's happening far too often in this country."
"We have to do something to stop gun violence ripping apart our communities."
"There is no rationale for assault rifles and magazines that hold 50 or 70."
That last statement drew sustained applause from the county officials at the tables before him.
Pool is heading back to the vans.
The president's motorcade was moving at 1427 for the drive back to the White House.
Per the press office, the briefing will begin shortly upon our return.
The motorcade pulled back onto the South Lawn driveway at 1432.
The president stepped out of the limo wearing his Aviators and walked back into the Oval at 1434.
Our planned outing for the day is complete.
Press briefing to start soon.
[
]
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre took the podium at 1441 and began the daily press briefing.
The press secretary wrapped up her question and answer session at 1537, after 56 minutes.
The White House announced a lid for the night at 1605.
Have a good evening, and until next time.