Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from another unseasonably warm day in Washington, where the forecast calls for rain this afternoon.
Your pooler is COVID tested and present at the White House for an 8:30 call time.
A reminder of today's public schedule at the White House. Note the relatively early start, 12:45 p.m., for today's briefing:
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors. No official word given on what we are gathering for, but Marine One was audible buzzing overhead and the president has been expected to possibly receive his physical this week.
, the President will travel to Walter Reed Medical Center for his routine annual physical.
Later 
, the White House will publicly release a written summary of the President's physical.
Traveling with the President on Marine One en route Walter Reed National Medical Center:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
Biden emerged from the south entrance at 8:55.
Asked by a reporter whether he had seen the interagency report on the Chinese balloon, Biden stopped, pointed a finger in the air as if trying to hear the question, and then proceeded to walk to Marine One. Was very difficult to hear with the helicopter in the background.
Marine One took off from the South Lawn at 9:00
Now handing off to supplemental pool
Biden arrived back at a rainy White House on board Marine One, which touched down on The South Law. at 12:23. POTUS emerged at 12:26 and jogged part of the way from Marine One to the Oval Office. An aide handed him a black umbrella halfway through his walk. He did not stop to ask questions.
"
Pool would like to thank the Washington Examiner's Christian Datoc and his umbrella for keeping this pool reporter somewhat dry (and able to type out this report) in the steady rain.
The White House says the briefing will now start at 1 p.m., from its originally scheduled time of 12:45
From the White House:
In the afternoon, the President will deliver remarks on the United States' response to recent aerial objects. These remarks in the South Court Auditorium will be pooled for TV and open to pre-credentialed media. 
Two-minute warning for the press briefing.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre entered the James S. Brady Briefing Room at 1:15.
A reminder that the president is now slated to speak at 2 p.m.
The briefing ended at 1:48, after 38 minutes.
One note: Jean-Pierre reiterated the White House expects to release a "comprehensive written report from his doctor" later today.
Pool is about to gather for Biden's remarks at 2.
the president will speak from the South Court Auditorium in two minutes, in remarks about "the United States' response to recent aerial objects."
Biden walked out to the lectern at 2:11. You can watch here 
Biden's speech from the South Court Auditorium concluded at 2:19
A few highlights:
(speaking about the three most recent objects shot down) "We don't know yet know exactly what these three objects were, and nothing right now suggests they're related" to the Chinese balloon
"I want to be clear: we don't have any evidence that there has been a sudden increase in the number of objects in the sky."
Biden said he would direct his team to come back with "sharper rules" for how to deal with objects and determine if they constitute a security risk or not.
On the Chinese balloon:
Said he made a decision to wait on shooting down the balloon in consultation with the military, until it was over the water.
But he said shooting it down "sent sent a clear message, a clear message, that the violation of our sovereignty is unacceptable."
Pool is gathering for a White House screening of the movie "Till," set for 5 p.m. in the East Room.
Per IMDB, a description of the movie, which was released in October of last year:
"In 1955, after Emmett Till is murdered in a brutal lynching, his mother vows to expose the racism behind the attack while working to have those involved brought to justice."
Jean-Pierre said during today's briefing that cast members, members of Till's family, historians, and families of the victims of hate crimes will be in attendance.
"This is something that the president and first lady are very much looking forward to. Remember this is Black History Month, and we think it's important to screen this movie, an incredibly powerful movie."
Biden entered the room at 5:15 and began speaking from behind a lectern. He called the screening a "special, special occasion."
He said great nations learn about their history
"Lynching is pure terror," meant to "enforce" the idea some people don't belong in America, he said.
If you missed the president's remarks, you can catch the replay here 
. He record a standing ovation at the end his speech. Light soon dimmed and pool was ushered out of the room.
A large screen has been erected in the East Room, in front of 10 rows of chairs. Many of the patrons were snacking on popcorn from the classic red and white box. One of the room's large, ornate chandeliers appeared to block a small part of the screen for some patrons in the back.
From the White House:
The President hosts a screening of "Till," the story of Mamie Till-Mobley who pursued justice after the lynching of her 14-year-old son, Emmett Till, in 1955. In attendance:
150 guests, including actors, film producers, partners of the film, family members of Emmett Till, civil rights leaders, historians, student groups from Chicago and Mississippi, and community activists who are working to combat hate-fueled violence in Buffalo, New York and Charleston, South Carolina.
Rep. Al Green (TX-09)
Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05)
Rep. Jonathan Jackson (IL-01)
Priscilla Sterling, Cousin of Emmett Till
Deborah Watts, Cousin of Emmett Till
Teri Watts, Cousin of Emmett Till
Anna Laura Williams, Cousin of Emmett Till
Annie Wright, wife of the late Simeon Wright, Cousin of Emmett Till
Reena Evers-Everette, Daughter of Medgar Evers and Myrlie Evers-Williams
Chinonye Chukwu, Director of "Till"
Danielle Deadwyler, Cast Member
Jalyn Hall, Cast Member
Whoopi Goldberg, Cast Member
Keith Beauchamp, Screenplay Writer and Producer
Michael Reilly, Screenplay Writer and Producer
Barbara Broccoli, Producer
Frederick Zollo, Producer
Thomas Levine, Producer
White House has called a lid at 5:30. Everyone enjoy your evening.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good morning! I'm your supplemental pool reporter for the president's physical.
POTUS landed at Walter Reed via Marine One at 9:09 a.m., exited at 9:13 and entered the beast without taking questions. The motorcade traveled a very short distance and we caught a glimpse of POTUS entering the hospital at 9:16.
Will let you know when we hear more.
Pool held in a room inside the hospital and received no updates during hold time.
After leaving the hold, we set up in a light drizzle outside to see POTUS exit the hospital at 12:06 p.m. He then took a perhaps 100-yard ride in the beast before boarding Marine One at 12:09. The president did not take questions and took off for the White House at 12:14.
POTUS appeared in good health and spirits during departure. The physical is expected to be released this afternoon.
Handing back off to the in-town pool. Thank you!