Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from Washington, D.C. I'll be your print pooler today.
The president is headed to Lanham, Maryland, later to deliver remarks on his plan to reduce the deficit. The White House has called a lunch lid until 1 p.m. Please feel free to reach out with any questions.
Here's a look at today's schedule.
Pool has loaded into the vans on the South Lawn driveway as we wait for POTUS for the half-hour ride to the IBEW Local Union 26 in Lanham, Maryland.
The president's remarks (scheduled for 2:30 pm ET) will be livestreamed here: 
One clarification on the schedule: there is no press briefing scheduled for today.
POTUS stepped out of the Oval Office at 1:47 pm ET. He climbed into the Beast a minute later and the motorcade is now rolling at 1:49 pm ET.
Per WH: Traveling with the President via motorcade en route International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 26, Lanham, Maryland:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Deputy Chief of Staff
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Herbie Ziskend, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Communications
The motorcade arrived at 2:11pm ET after an uneventful ride.
Pool was escorted inside the IBEW Local Union 26 to a hall at the end of the building. The president's podium is set against a backdrop of stairs lined with local union members holding handmade signs that read "Let's go Joe!" and "IBEW + Biden – Perfect Union." Five American flags and three bunting flags were also displayed along the stairs. The crowd cheered as Gov. Wes Moore entered the hall.
The President is greeting with Local IBEW 26 members and participating in a photo line, per WH.
Participating in a photoline with the President at IBEW Local 26:
Governor of Maryland Wes Moore
Senator Ben Cardin (MD)
Rep. Glenn Ivey (MD-04)
Anne Healey, Maryland Delegate (District 22)
Kenneth Cooper, International President, IBEW
Brandon Travis Brown, Culpeper Town Councilman and IBEW Local 26 Apprentice
We're awaiting the remarks, which again will be livestreamed here: 
Two minutes until POTUS speaks.
B. Travis Brown is speaking now.
In attendance for the President's remarks on his plan to reduce the deficit while investing in America, bringing down costs for families, and protecting and strengthening Social Security and Medicare:
Members of the local IBEW, other labor leaders, community members, and elected officials
Brandon Travis Brown, Culpeper Town Councilman and IBEW Local 26 Apprentice
The President
POTUS took the stage at 2:33 pm ET and began speaking after briefly turning to look at all the poster signs behind him.
I won't be sending quotes but will send any notable color from the room.
POTUS finished speaking at 3:07 pm ET for a total of 34 minutes. He stepped off the stage and into the crowd to work the rope line for several minutes.
The crowd erupted into cheers several times throughout his speech as he touched on his economic plan, funding high-speed internet and electric vehicle charging stations through the bipartisan infrastructure law, bringing manufacturing back to the U.S. and lowering the cost of prescription drugs.
He repeated his promise to veto any legislation that cuts Social Security and Medicare. "That's the Republican dream. I'm their nightmare," he said.
Pool is moving back to the vans.
The motorcade is rolling at 3:29pm ET.
Pool did not see POTUS join the motorcade before we moved.
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 3:50pm ET.
The Beast stopped in front of the residence, but pool did not see POTUS exit.
We have a lid. Have a wonderful afternoon!