Pool Reports by 
, 
Happy (Sunny) Saturday to all...
Pool is gathered and loaded into vans as of 4:05pm...
Motorcade started rolling at4:27pm 
more info to come once we arrive at destination...
The motorcade has arrived at Georgetown University. POTUS and FLOTUS were seen entering what appears to be Wolfington Residence Hall.
POTUS and FLOTUS were seen leaving the building at 5:18pm.
Per Press Office he attended mass on the campus
He waved to a few dozen folks who had gathered near residence hall.
Motorcade rolling at 5:20pm
At 5:29pm motorcade arrived at the National Museum of American History. 
We're told that we'll be holding in vans...
More info TK as soon as we have it
Also this was the official statement from press office re: Georgetown visit
"The President and the First Lady attended mass on the campus of Georgetown University."
From the press office as pool continues to hold in vans without eyes on POTUS and FLOTUS...
"The President and First Lady are visiting the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History where they are viewing "The First Ladies" exhibition.
On January 25, 2023, Dr. Biden formally presented her inaugural attire to the Smithsonian, where it is now officially a part of the First Ladies collection. "
Motorcade started rolling from museum at 6:08pm
From our vantage point we could not see POTUS or FLOTUS
From the museum, motorcade drove to the Bloomingdale area of DC, arriving around 6:25pm
Pool was told to hold in vans on the corner of Rhode Island Avenue and First Street NW
Will follow up with more once we know more...
From White House Press Office:
"The President and First Lady are having dinner at Red Hen."
POTUS departed Red Hen around 7:47pm with many in the restaurant standing up to applaud him on the way out. There were also observers gathered across the street and behind pool  that cheered as they saw him and FLOTUS enter vehicle.
Pool attempted to call over POTUS for questions but he did not respond in the short distance between restaurant and motorcade.
Motorcade is moving…
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 8pm
Per press office, POTUS and FLOTUS both ate Rigatoni at Red Hen
LID called at 8:05pm
POTUS and FLOTUS entered the residence but poolers did not see them.
Good Night!