Meeting the needs of the whole child is essential to help America's students grow academically and improve their well-being. That's why the Biden-Harris Administration is committed to increasing and supporting the adoption of community school models across the country.
Community schools meet the unique needs of the neighborhoods they serve by leveraging local non-profit, private sector, and public partnerships to bring wraparound services into school buildings, such as mental health supports, dental services, and assistance with shelter and nutrition. They operate with the assistance of school staff who coordinate with school administrators, stakeholders, and local organizations to deliver these services and more to students, their families, and members of the community. Research has shown that these schools contribute to increased student attendance, on-time grade progression, and high school graduation.
In the most recent bipartisan funding bill, 
 program. This means the program is twice as large as last year and five times as large as when President Biden came into office.
Today, in recognition of the need to marshal resources from across the government to support community schools, the Biden-Harris Administration is:
The 
. This competition will provide 42 local educational agencies, non-profits, and institutions of higher education across the country with $63 million in funding for community schools in more than twenty states. This year's grant competition received the largest number of applications in the history of the program, demonstrating the enormous need for and interest in advancing a continuum of coordinated support to address students' social, emotional and mental health. By continuing to expand the reach of Full-Service Community Schools, we will support students' academic recovery, as well as the health and well-being of communities across the country.
The Administration supports the Full-Service Community School model because of the powerful effects these schools have on students' academic success and overall well-being. 
 have found that well-implemented community schools—with integrated student supports, active family and community engagement, expanded and enriched learning time, and collaborative leadership practices—can lead to improved student and school outcomes, particularly for students in high-poverty schools. Yet communities can face difficulties identifying resources to establish or expand Full-Service Community Schools because they exist across the federal government. Today, the White House is releasing a Toolkit of Federal Resources to Support Community Schools.
The toolkit lists relevant grant programs by federal agency and explains how those grants can be used to provide student services at community schools. It also includes new commitments from various federal agencies to support community schools, including the following: