Pool Reports by 
, 
From the White House:
Upon arrival at the United Nations, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff was greeted by Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield. Following the greet, the Second Gentleman joined foreign representatives for lunch and closed press meeting. The participants included in the lunch are below.
From a White House official:
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff met with United Nations Secretary General António Guterres. During the meeting, they spoke about countering antisemitism on a global scale and educating the world on Holocaust remembrance.
Other participants included:
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield
Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt
Mr. Courtenay Rattray, Chef de Cabinet
Ms. Rosemary A. DiCarlo, Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding
Ms. Melissa Fleming, Under-Secretary-General for Global Communications
Mr. Miguel Moratinos, High Representative for Alliance and Civilisations
SGOTUS began speaking at the UN anti-Semitism conference at approx. 3:17 Pm.
Emhoff began by acknowledging the humanitarian crisis in Syria/Turkey, following the earthquake there.
"The images just continue to get worse. They are hard to see." He said the Biden-Harris administration would continue to work with partners on the ground on relief efforts.
On his recent trip to Auschwitz-Birkenau and other Holocaust related cites: "The trip was intense. It was emotional. It was somber."
More quotes from the Second Gentleman's address at the UN anti-Semitism summit
"We must all speak out against anti semitism and call out those who don't. Silence is not an option. We must build coalitions to tackle this epidemic."
"Any threat to one community is a threat to all communities."
"It is important to tell the truth about the Holocaust" and "push back against Holocaust denial"
"There must be consequences for those who engage in anti-Semitism. There must be accountability."
"Too often, we see celebrities, comedians, use anti-Semitism to draw cheap laughs, high-profile entertainers, politicians, openly spouting tired, anti-Semitic tropes."
"It's not just about Jews. It about all of us."
"Anti-semitism is often accompanied by other forms of hatred."
Emhoff referenced a "chilling interconnection" between anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred.
SGOTUS concluded speaking at 3:29 pm. He remained seated as U.S. and international officials delivered remarks of their own.