Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. I'll be your out-of-town pooler today for the president's trip to Florida, his fourth visit there since he took office.
Pool has been swept at JBA. Looks like we're taking the larger Air Force One.
Here's today's travel schedule:
Marine One landed at JBA at 10:24 a.m.
POTUS waved to the pool but did not come over to talk before boarding AF1 at 10:28 a.m.
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle on the flight. It will be live-streamed on the White House website.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force one en route Tampa International Airport, Tampa, Florida:
Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Alana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Alicia Molt-West, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Megan Rooney, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
AF1 landed at Tampa International Airport at 12:26. It's 82 degrees and sunny.
POTUS deplaned at 12:37 p.m., followed by Rep. Castor.
Greeting the President upon arrival:
Jane Castor, Mayor of Tampa, Florida
Ana Cruz, Spouse of Mayor Jane Castor
POTUS spoke briefly with the mayor before getting in his vehicle.
We are rolling at 12:41 p.m.
Next stop: University of Tampa
During the flight, White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled for about 21 minutes. She took questions on China/balloon, Social Security, Turkey's earthquake, cuts proposed by the House Budget Committee, Gov. DeSantis's fight with Disney, Sen. Scott's criticisms of POTUS, Lula's upcoming White House visit, and whether POTUS would commit to appointing an Asian American to his cabinet.
The motorcade arrived at the University of Tampa at 12:55 p.m.
We passed a typical amount of people capturing the motorcade by phone as we drove by.
There were a few people holding signs in support or opposition as we pulled into the campus. One said "Free the Boys," an apparent reference to the Proud Boys. One was in support of Biden.
At the campus, students were lined up outside — on building steps, grounds & under palm trees - as we drove through. One group let out a big cheer.
We did not see POTUS exit the beast. Pool is now holding ahead of the president's remarks.
The stage has signs reading: Protect and Strengthen Medicare."
In the audience and press seats, there are White House brochures on Sen. Scott's 12-point plan to rescue America. Inside, it claims Medicare & Social Security would be on the chopping block every five years.
I will tweet a photo.
Also, the White House updates that the Tampa mayor's spouse was not at the Tampa airport.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the University of Tampa, Tampa, Florida:
Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09)
Charlie Crist, Former Governor of Florida
Jane Castor, Mayor of Tampa, Florida
Ana Cruz, Spouse of Mayor Jane Castor
Ken Welch, Mayor of St. Petersburg, Florida
Florida State Representative Susan Valdes (District 64)
Janet Long, County Commissioner for Pinellas County
POTUS is about to speak. His remarks are being livestreamed 
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks discussing his plan to protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare and lower health care costs:
Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Jane Castor, Mayor of Tampa, Florida
Ronald L. Vaughn, President of the University of Tampa
Ronald L. Vaughn, President of the University of Tampa
Jane Castor, Mayor of Tampa, Florida
Rep. Kathy Castor (FL-14)
Azucena Abed, Business Travel Counselor for American Express Global Business Travel
The President
POTUS began speaking at 1:57 p.m. and ended at 2:21 p.m.
(It was hard to hear so please check transcript, per usual.)
Biden started by talking about his SOTU speech and how he told Republicans there's no reason they can't work together.
"Fighting for the sake of fighting gets us nowhere."
He said he came to FL to talk about a critical part of his plan: lowering health care costs.
He noted that Florida has the highest percentage of seniors before talking about what was in the Inflation Reduction Act to lower drug prices and criticizing the amount of money the pharmaceutical industry makes.
He said a lot of Republicans want to repeal the IRA and are still trying to end Obamacare.
He criticized FL for not expanding Medicaid under the ACA. The only reason it hasn't happened is politics, he said: "It's time to get this done" he added to big applause.
Biden referred to the "spirited" debate during the SOTU.
He held up the White House brochure on Sen. Scott's 12-point plan.
"Maybe he's changed his mind Maybe he's seen the lord," Biden said.
"If that's your dream. I'm your nightmare," he said of anyone who wants to cut SS & Medicare.
Biden said it sounded, at SOTU, like Republicans were agreeing to take SS & Medicare off the table. "I sure hope so."
He said he won't cut a single benefit from SS or Medicare.
The motorcade started rolling away from the University of Tampa at 3:46 p.m.
We did not see POTUS.
Students were again lined up along the sidewalks.
Outside the university, one of the signs being held up said Biden has dementia.
We are heading back to the airport.
The motorcade arrived at the Tampa airport at about 4:p.m.
POTUS was already walking up to the plane and did not talk to the pool before boarding AF1.
We are departing shortly for JBA.
AF1 touched down at JBA at 5:55 p.m.
Per WH: Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Biden did not stop to talk before boarding M1.
M1 took off at 6:11 p.m.
Per WH: Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Handing off to the in-town pool.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One is awaiting the president on the South Lawn. Pool and press corps have gathered.
President Biden emerged from the residence at 10:10am on his way to Tampa.
"I haven't made a decision when I am going to Poland," he said.
Asked if he's considering going to Ukraine he said (I'm pretty sure) that he hadn't decided yet.
He boarded Marine One at 10:11.
Shrill whine of Marine One drowned out much of his comments. Will effort better quotes ASAP.
Wheels up at 10:14am.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Departing White House before boarding Marine One:
q. When will you go to Poland and is there any possibility that you could go into Ukraine? (lots of crosstalk questions along these lines)
"I haven't made a decision when I'm going to Poland or even if for certain I am going to Poland," he said.
q. would you go to Ukraine too? (paraphrase)
"There's a possibility I may go to Poland, but that's all," he said. He emphasized "Poland" and it sounded clearly, to my ear, that he was ruling out a side trip to Ukraine.
Thanks to TV pool for their superior audio.
[
]
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 6:21pm.
President Biden walked into the residence alone at 6:24 without acknowledging questions being shouted by the pool.
It's a balmy 63 degrees on this winter evening. Security was tight on Pennsylvania Avenue with President Lula at Blair House.
Pool was still holding on the driveway at the edge of the Rose Garden when Marine One revved at 6:27pm. The pool was on the move as it lifted two minutes or so later, though still plenty close to muss the hair. No further sightings of the president.
We have a lid at 6:32.