High-speed internet has become an essential tool to access education, healthcare, and work. Still, too many are left without high-speed internet because of lacking infrastructure, costs or the lack of skills to utilize the technology. This is particularly notable in communities of color, rural communities and among older Americans where the lack of affordable, reliable high-speed internet is compounding economic, health and other disparities.
That's why President Biden and Vice President Harris worked with Democrats, Republicans, and Independents to include a record $65 billion in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to expand "Internet for All" — so that everyone in America has access to reliable and affordable high-speed internet. The Administration also secured critical funding for affordable high-speed internet in the American Rescue Plan and general appropriations laws. The Administration's efforts are centered around three principles—access, affordability and equity. Across the laws, Internet for All programs will build high-speed internet infrastructure, teach digital skills, and provide necessary technology to ensure that everyone in America has the access and skills they need to fully participate in today's society.
Today in South Carolina, Vice President Harris is highlighting the impact of these investments to date, while announcing new milestones in the effort to increase access to affordable, reliable, high-speed internet and close the digital divide including:
Approximately 1 in 5 Americans who do not use the internet cite cost as the key factor. These consumers are more likely to have school aged kids, make under $25,000 per year and identify as a person of color. Since so much of our society has moved online, this discrepancy can continue to exacerbate other inequalities. The Affordable Connectivity Program is designed to help close this divide.
The Affordable Connectivity Program, authorized by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, is a key part of the Administration's 
 initiative and the largest internet affordability program in our nation's history. Experts estimate that as many as 
—or nearly 40% of households in the country—qualify for the ACP.
The Affordable Connectivity Program, administered by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), provides eligible households up to $30/month (or $75/month on qualifying Tribal lands) off internet bills, as well as a one-time discount of up to $100 off a laptop, desktop computer or tablet. To further lower costs, in May 2022, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced commitments from internet service providers across the country to offer high-speed plans that are fully covered by the Affordable Connectivity Program—meaning millions of working families can now get high-speed internet without paying a dime. They simultaneously launched 
—a one-stop shop to check eligibility and sign up.
In July 2022, the Vice President made a call to action to states and federal agencies to help spread the word about the Affordable Connectivity Program. This call to action led to tens of millions of text messages, emails, letters and flyers sent directly to consumers to inform them about this opportunity.
Today, Vice President Harris is announcing another milestone in this program.
 This is a 40% increase since the announcement of 
.
For consumers who do not cite affordability as an impediment to access there could be other factors such as, a shortage of modern infrastructure in their area, unavailability of devices or a lack of support to gain digital skills. That's why the Biden-Harris Administration's "Internet for All" initiative is taking a holistic approach to closing the digital divide.
The Biden-Harris Administration believes that a strong economy is an equitable economy and today's economy is online. Closing the digital divide will allow Americans to access the resources they need and strengthen the U.S. economy to compete in the 21st Century.
To ensure funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is utilized to connect those who need it most, the Biden-Harris Administration recently announced funding for 
. With this investment, every state, DC and Puerto Rico will produce a digital equity plan to enhance adoption and use of the internet across 
 in their state. These plans are intended to support the creation of community-centric solutions, including partnerships with community organizations and anchor institutions.
Today's announcement helps kick-off this work,
 These grants funded through the Department of Commerce's 
 will help schools fund enhancements to high-speed internet infrastructure, purchase equipment, devices and software, and provide digital skills training and upskilling for IT staff. Minority Serving Institutions serve as centers of academic excellence all across the country and serve as a catalyst to develop leaders for our nation. Today's, announcement is an investment in those students.
To ensure that HBCU's are fully included and utilized in the process to expand affordable high-speed internet across the country, the Biden-Harris Administration is committing to an 
. This strategy recognizes that while these institutions are critical anchors that deliver outsized impacts, they often reside in communities that have long faced a disproportionate lack of access. This commitment will provide each HBCU with direct contact to a Federal Program Officer within their state that will help these institutions find applicable resources to execute their own programs, participate in the state-wide high-speed internet and digital equity planning programs, and help facilitate the promotion of the ACP on campus and within their communities.
The Biden-Harris Administration's 
 will ensure that every American has access to reliable and affordable high-speed internet. For more information about how the Biden-Harris Administration is working to connect everyone in America please visit 
. To sign-up for the Affordable Connectivity Program, please visit 
.