Pool Reports by 
, 
Welcome from the White House, where so far there is nothing public on the schedule until we gather for the president's scheduled departure for Delaware at 5:15 p.m.
Already a lunch lid has been called until 4:45 p.m.
From the White House:
President Biden’s virtual meeting with President Zelenskyy and G7 Leaders started at 9:10 am ET and ended at 10:38 am ET. Joint G7 Leaders statement to come.
From the White House
President Biden is receiving an update on the Federal government’s response to the Norfolk Southern train derailment in East Palestine, OH from Transportation Secretary Buttigieg, EPA Administrator Regan, HHS Secretary Becerra, and FEMA Administrator Criswell this morning. Secretary Buttigieg is updating the President on his visit to East Palestine yesterday to view the site of the crash and meet with workers and local officials, in addition to outlining the NTSB preliminary report. Administrator Regan is updating the President on EPA’s administrative order directing Norfolk Southern to pay for all clean up actions related to the train derailment. Secretary Becerra and Administrator Criswell are outlining the federal support and coordination HHS, CDC, and FEMA are providing to assist with on-going health and safety support as the community of East Palestine rebuilds following this tragic incident.
[
]
Hars to hear. Will send notes.
Impossible to hear as the president walked down the line of reporters.
Highlights:
Biden said there was a private conversation with Zelensky about the F16s, and recounted his conversation with Xi warning that western companies could pull out of China if they sided with Russia and there was no evidence they were doing that now.
Will get quotes later.
Marine One in the air at around 5:28
Biden said he had no plans at this time to go to East Palestine, Ohio.
In response to the China question, he was referring to no evidence about the lethal aid going to Russia.
Will listen to recordings ASAP. Thanks to all of the other reporters who heard these comments and shared them.
China supplying lethal weapons to Russia:
"No evidence of that so far."
"I had a long conservation with Xi about this in the summer. I said, 'Look this is not a threat, it's just a statement. When, in fact, Europeans saw what was happening and Americans saw what was happening in Russia, in Europe, guess what? Six hundred corporations pulled out and left.' I said, 'You told me the future of China rests on investment from the western world. That matters.' I said I'd just keep an eye on it."
Talking to Zelensky about sending F16s to Ukraine: "That's a private discussion."
Train derailment in East Palestine, Ohio. According to other reporters, Biden said he had no plans to visit. I could not hear him initially nor make out the answer on the tape.
"I had a long meeting with my team and what they're doing. We were there two hours after the train went down. I've spoken with every single major figure in both in Pennsylvania and in Ohio. The idea that we're not engaged is just simply not there. Initially there was not a request for me to go out even before i was heading over to Kyiv. So I'm keeping very close tabs on it. We're doing all we can."
Traveling with the president to Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle:
Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Our work here is done. Good night. Have a good weekend.
Thanks to everyone who provided assistance, especially in trying to get President Biden's comments before he boarded Marine One.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Marine One landed at Delaware National Air National Guard Base in New Castle at 6:21 PM.
The motorcade pulled up to Marine One at 6:25 PM. President Biden got in the Beast at 6:26 PM.
At 6:29 PM the motorcade is rolling.
The president’s motorcade arrived at his Wilmington home at 6:41 PM.
Pool did not see the president exit his vehicle.
At 6:50 PM we have a lid. Good night all.