Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning from our final day in Namibia. Today Dr. Biden will speak to university students in Windhoek and then head to Kenya.
No cell service and intermittent wi-fi remain a challenge. A warning you may not hear from the pool again until we reach Nairobi this evening(flight time is about four hours). Thank you for your patience and understanding as we continue to deal with logistical issues.
Here is the background on today's events from the East Wing:
In the morning, the First Lady will deliver keynote remarks to students at the Namibia University of Science and Technology on the role of young people in shaping the future and strengthening democracy. The audience will include students from local universities and high schools in Namibia. Youth make up 60percent of Namibia's population.
- Dr. Erold "Erik" Naomab, 
- Martha Ambabi, 
- First Lady Jill Biden
In the afternoon, the First Lady will depart Windhoek, Namibia for Nairobi, Kenya. This departure will be covered by the traveling pool.
In the evening, the First Lady will arrive in Nairobi, Kenya and greet with First Lady of the Republic of Kenya Rachel Ruto and U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Kenya Meg Whitman. The First Lady will be welcomed by Kenyan cultural performances.
The First Lady will be greeted by:
Afterwards, the First Lady will meet with First Lady Ruto at the State House. This meeting will be closed press.

Later in the evening, the First Lady will participate in a women's empowerment reception with U.S. Ambassador to Kenya Meg Whitman at the Chief of Mission's Residence. The First Lady and the Ambassador will be joined by Kenyan women leaders in government, business, research, and education.
 Some of the Kenyan women leaders in attendance have participated in the following U.S. Government-supported programs:

Motorcade left the RON at 9:29 am and arrived at the Namibia University of Science and Technology at 9:35 am.
FLOTUS gave her speech outside. It's beautiful day - sunny, 68 degrees and a slight breeze.
She spoke in the center of a courtyard with students surrounding her on all sides. Crowd count is about 1,300 per university officials.
Before FLOTUS spoke a university official led students in a cheer. He then introduced First Lady of Namibia Monica Geingos, who got a standing ovation. He then introduced Dr. Biden, who came on wearing a pink panda suit and to Cold Play's A Sky Full of Stars. She entered stage at 9:45 am. Students gave her a standing ovation, giving whoops and cheers. She waved to the crowd.
Geingos said the event was about being free: "What ever it is that is holding you back you deserve to be a free of that."
Monica Geingos said of her and Biden: "We are here because we married men who became presidents. Let's be honest. So when young girls come to me and say oh, I want to be just like you. I also want to be a first lady. I say no. Don't. You must want to be a president."
She added of Dr. Biden: "She is more than just a First Lady. She was telling me when she arrives in DC on Monday she will go to class on Tuesday. That is commitment. That's what professionalism looks like. Many of you after a late night the next morning, you've got reasons why you're not going to class. Now after a 15 hour flight back home, she goes to class the next day to speak to her young people."
Then Dr. Biden spoke. When she told the students "you are the keepers of democracy," a student yelled: "amen." FLOTUS: "That's right. Amen."
Students gave her a standing ovation when she wrapped her remarks.
After her remarks, FLOTUS worked the rope line, including shaking the hand of a woman wearing a sash saying "Miss Namibia." She walked all four sides of the stage to shake hands.
At one point students started dancing to the music playing in the background. FLOTUS danced with them for a moment - shaking and bobbing with them.
She also shook hands with students as she exited. She walked around the outer area of the stage to meet more of them. And she took a drink from a water bottle handed to her by Anthony Bernal. Students lined her exit path and she shook hands as she worked her way out. She spent about 12 minutes shaking hands on the rope lines.
From here we head to the airport for Kenya (flight time about four hours). FYI cell service at airport was sketchy.
East Wing will send out Dr. Biden's full remarks:
[
]
Motorcade departed the university at 10:22 am. Arrived at airport ar 11 am. Drive to airport was uneventful with cars pulled over to the side of the road to let the motorcade by.
Namibian First Lady Monica Geingos came to the airport to see FLOTUS off. The two women spoke for several minutes. Pool was not close enough to hear.
A group of officials - including the U.S. ambassador to Namibia - were also there to see FLOTUS depart.
FLOTUS also took photos with the trip staff on the ground. With one final hug and kisses on the cheek from Geingos, FLOTUS boarded the plane at 11:10 am. She waved good bye at the top.
She didn't answer shouted questions from the pool on her thoughts on her trip this far or on the one year anniversary of the invasion of the Ukraine.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up to Nairobi shortly. Flight time is about four hours.
Note: The song FLOTUS danced to on the rope line after her university speech was: "Cough (Odo)" by Namibia artist Kizz Daniel.
Pool also saw her still working the rope line as we loaded in vans at university, making her way around the back of the crowd. So she shook hands and worked the line for about 16 minutes (thanks to co-pooler Jada Yuan of Washington Post for additional details from that event).
Executive One Foxtrot was wheels up from Hosea Kutako Intl. (YWH) at 11:29 am and landed at Jomo Kenyatta Intl. (KJK) at 4:28 pm local time (+8 eastern time).
During the flight Dr. Biden came back to the press section to make a brief statement on the one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion of the Ukraine: "So I just wanted to say on the one-year anniversary of Ukraine that not a day goes by that I don't think of President Zelensky, Olena, their family, and all the people in Ukraine and what they are going through and how hard they're fighting to keep their freedom. So thank you."
She took no questions.
Also during the flight, CNN went to the forward cabin to interview FLOTUS in her office.
Correction: Jill Biden was wearing a pink pants suit at her speech in Namibia. Apologies for the autocorrect error in previous pool report.
Jill Biden exited the plane at 4:47 pm.
It is hot - 85 degrees, sunny and windy. FLOTUS, who was accompanied off the plane by Naomi Biden, held onto the bottom of her purple dress to keep it from blowing up in the wind. Naomi is wearing a long colorful kaftan-type dress.
Two little girls in pink dresses gave FLOTUS flowers.
There was a group of male and female dancers in grass skirts - some with pink tulle decorating them - performing. They wore a mix of head gear - cowboy hats, feathers, and turbans. Wooden drums were played and they were singing "Welcome to Kenya" in Swahili.
Pool was pulled into the press van and missed FLOTUS interactions with the dancers.
Dr. Biden was greeted by
At 4:54 pm motorcade is rolling to the state house.
The motorcade arrived at the state house at 5:19 pm for FLOTUS meeting with First Lady Ruto.
It is closed press. Pool is holding in vans.
Motorcade went by Nairobi Wildlife Park on its drive. Zebras were grazing near the fence line.
Motorcade left the state house at 6:58 pm at arrived at the Chief of Mission's Residence at 7:08 pm.
Lots of people stood along the motorcade route to watch the cars go by.
At embassy FLOTUS participated in a women's empowerment reception with U.S. Ambassador to Kenya Meg Whitman. Event took place in the tented courtyard. FLOTUS and Whitman are on a small stage. Small round tables around the room.
Whitman introduced FLOTUS.
FLOTUS started out by calling up all the women closer to the stage where she is speaking.
"Well first of all, we're all sisters so like you can't be standing like way back there. Come on up."
"This is my third visit to Kenya. And I, you know, I have incredible memories here. In fact, I told my granddaughter Naomi that coming here changed my life. And that's why she wanted to join me. So it's wonderful to be back and I, you know, I couldn't ask for a warmer welcome."
She said women have had to fight for a seat at the table: "And Meg I'm sure no one knows that better than you." Whitman nodded.
"And when women earn money - nothing better, right? [applause and cheers] - we invest it in our families. And I know that because I am a working woman."
"When we come together as partners, when we can when we come together to work against injustice, we can repair what's broken and we can build something new."
"Thank you for the courage that it takes to run for office, to push science to new places, to create a business to climb to new heights."
She walked off stage and stopped to talk to a few women on the sidelines.
She told them: "I have to go do an interview but I want to give a couple of hugs." She hugged several of them and then exited.
She gave an interview to AP's Darlene Superville. Pool held in vans while that took place.
Motorcade arrived at the RON at 8:28 pm.
That's all for today. More tomorrow...
Also here are the names and details of the two little girls who gave FLOTUS flowers at the airport arrival cermony.
From a Kenyan Protocol Officer:
Alma Jared
Yvette Chelagat
Both 7 years old and are members of Mama Cycling, a cycling club founded by the First Lady:
There are a number of branches around the country.
They were selected because they both have been very active in the club since they were four years old and exemplify the strength of the club and the sport of cycling.
Plus there were two additional greeters at airport:
Marc Dillard, 
Alex Gitari, 
And here is background from the East Wing on the women's empowerment event:
Later in the evening, the First Lady will participate in a women's empowerment reception with U.S. Ambassador to Kenya Meg Whitman at the Chief of Mission's Residence. The First Lady and the Ambassador will be joined by Kenyan women leaders in government, business, research, and education.
Some of the Kenyan women leaders in attendance have participated in the following U.S. Government-supported programs:
