Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning,
The White House has pushed the call-time back to 12pm this afternoon.
At 12:14pm, the White House called a lunch lid until 1:30pm.
Good afternoon,
The WH just announced the lunch lid will be extended to 3pm today.
Good afternoon,
The lunch lid has been extended to 5pm today.
Good afternoon - Minor correction: The President and First Lady are expected to depart the White House at 6:30pm.
The President addressed Title 42 briefly from the South Lawn before his departure around 6:25pm:
The Court will not decide the matter until June but it’s overdue, Biden said, adding that in the meantime Title 42 must be enforced.
Biden did not address questions about whether he would discuss running in 2024 while in St. Croix
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Seasons Greetings from JBA, where pool is swept and ready for President Biden’s delayed (mildly, by current airport standards) departure to St. Croix. Awaiting Biden arrival.
Marine One landed at JBA at ~6:37 pm. 
POTUS boarded AF1 with the First Lady, his granddaughter Natalie and grandson Hunter (per the eagle eye of co-pooler Emily Goodin.) They were followed by granddaughter Naomi, her husband Peter — and their dog. (They were not on Marine One.)
POTUS waved to pool but did not take questions. 
We will be wheels up for St. Croix shortly. 
From the WH:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel William Chris McDonald
Ms. Diana McDonald
Correction: White House staff inform us that it was actually Ashley, Howard, and their dog, and not Naomi and Peter.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady en route St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Emilie Simons, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
AFI was wheels down in St Croix at ~11:10 pm local time. POTUS deplaned with grandchildren in tow and did not take questions. Motorcade rolling shortly.
POTUS was dropped off at his RON on the eastern end of St. Croix at 11:56 pm local time. 
We have a lid.
Thanks again to co-pooler Emily Goodin! Have a good night everyone.