Pool Reports by 
, 
Pool has been swept and is holding near POTUS' Wilmington residence as of 10:56 a.m.
A livestream of today's event can be found here:
As a reminder, this is today's schedule:
EST
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily Briefing
Closed Press
10:00 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
11:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
12:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a town hall and speaks with veterans and veteran survivors to discuss the historic expansion of benefits and services resulting from the PACT Act
Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center, New Castle, Delaware
Out-of-Town Pool
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route Joint Base Andrews
Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware
Out-of-Town Pool
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route the White House
Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware
Out-of-Town Pool
1:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House
South Lawn
Open Press (Gather 1:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
8:55 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route New Castle, Delaware
South Lawn
Open Press (Gather 8:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
9:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in New Castle, Delaware
Delaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware
Supplemental Pool
The motorcade started rolling to the Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center at 11:48 a.m. It's a roughly 12-minute drive with traffic lights.
Pool did not see POTUS hopping into the Beast.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard / Reserve Center, New Castle, Delaware:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Terri Tanielian, Special Assistant to the President for Veterans Affairs
Jimmy Anderson, Director of Veterans Engagement
The motorcade arrived at the Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center at 11:58 a.m.
POTUS entered the room at 12:12 p.m.
There are three speakers before his remarks.
The stage is set with two American flags and another two with the presidential seal. There are two signs in front of the podium that says "Supporting our veterans" and "
"
In front of the president, roughly 100 seats are filled.
From the WH:
The President is participating in a town hall and speaking with veterans and veteran survivors to discuss the historic expansion of benefits and services resulting from the PACT Act.
John Carney, Governor of Delaware
Secretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At-large District)
Major General Michael Berry, Delaware National Guard
Veterans and families
Major General Michael Berry, Delaware National Guard
Secretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
The President
Participating in a photoline with the President at Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard / Reserve Center, New Castle, Delaware:
John Carney, Governor of Delaware
Secretary Denis McDonough, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Senator Tom Carper (DE)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At-large District)
Dr. Shereef Elnahal, Under Secretary of Health for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
Bethany Hall Long, Lieutenant Governor of Delaware
Major General Michael Berry, Delaware National Guard
POTUS started speaking at 12:30 p.m.
Here is an Otter link in case there are issues with the livestream:
VA Secy McDonough mentioned POTUS' "sacred obligation" to military service members and veterans, including through the PACT Act:
"You serve us, we will serve you. Our nation as a whole makes that promise, but it's our mission here in Delaware and across the country to keep that promise to all veterans, their families, their caregivers."
"President Biden is leading the way in keeping that promise. We will not rest until every single veteran and survivor knows about this new law, understands what it means for them, and gets the care and benefits."
Sen. Carper spoke of the personal nature of the legislation. Carper is the last serving Vietnam War veteran in the U.S. Senate:
"To put it bluntly, this bill is going to save lives."
POTUS finished speaking at 12:52 p.m.
Photo:
POTUS said arriving and leaving at/from DANG and the nearby Major Joseph R. "Beau" Biden III National Guard/Reserve Center, named for his late son, leaves him with "a lump in his throat." He added FLOTUS, who remained at the White House for another holiday reception, warned him not to get "emotional."
POTUS spoke of the "greatest generation," adding their sacrifices do not go "unnoticed."
POTUS left the podium to roam with a handheld microphone for some of his remarks:
"As Americans, we only have one sacred obligation."
At one point, he raised his voice when he mentioned military suicides, underscoring his increase in VA funding and investment in resources:
"I think we're making progress. I think we're making genuine progress."
Of burn pits, POTUS thanked former late night TV host Jon Stewart for his advocacy of the cause. He said he would have pushed Congress to pass the PACT Act, "come hell or high water." He also referenced his numerous trips to Iraq, while amplifying how the law streamlines the benefit qualification process:
"We also need to pass the bipartisan government funding bill, so we can deliver on the last promise as well."
The motorcade started rolling to DANG at 12:57 p.m.
Please note this key quote from POTUS' remarks:
"I made it real clear the United States Congress, if they didn't pass this damn burn pit bill, I was going to go on holy war. Not a joke."
The motorcade arrived at DANG at 1:01 p.m. and POTUS stepped out of the Beast at 1:02 p.m.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 1:03 p.m. He responded to a question about sending air support to Ukraine and said: "You'll hear in a few minutes."
We'll be wheels up shortly. It's a roughly 35-minute flight to JBA.
Wheels were up at DANG at 1:12 p.m. Wheels down at JBA at 1:37 p.m.
To clarify the question from DANG, CNN's DJ Judd asked POTUS whether he's sending Patriot Air Defense Missile Systems to Ukraine.
POTUS is also signing the one-week continuing resolution this afternoon, which is why he flew back to the White House this afternoon before returning to Delaware tonight for the 50th anniversary of the deaths of his first wife Neilia and their one-year-old daughter, Naomi.
POTUS deplaned AF1 at 1:49 p.m. He spoke with the greeter as they walked toward M1, but did not respond to shouted questions about the border or to clarify his position on sending Patriot Air Defense Missile Systems to Ukraine.
POTUS boarded M1 at 1:50 p.m. M1 lifted off at 1:56 p.m.
From the WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Good Afternoon,
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 2:06pm
POTUS walked over to the Oval and entered at 2:10pm without stopping to take questions.
Side note: Actress Sophia Bush was on hand to watch the president's arrival. She was off to the side and captured the M1 arrival on her phone.
The press office has called a dinner lid until 8:30p.m.
Via the WH Press Office:
The President dropped by a meeting of newly elected mayors in the Roosevelt Room hosted by the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs.
Secretary Marcia Fudge, U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Gabe Amo, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Ashleigh Aitken, Mayor of Anaheim, California
Chris Hoy, Mayor of Salem, Oregon
Becky Daggett, Mayor-elect of Flagstaff, Arizona
Pamela Goynes-Brown, Mayor of North Las Vegas, Nevada
Craig Greenberg, Mayor-elect of Louisville, Kentucky
Garnett Johnson, Mayor-elect of Augusta, Georgia
Phillip Jones, Mayor-elect of Newport News, Virginia
Matt Mahan, Mayor-elect of San Jose, California
Rex Richardson, Mayor-elect of Long Beach, California
Brett Smiley, Mayor-elect of Providence, Rhode Island
Sheng Thao, Mayor-elect of Oakland, California
Harvey Ward, Mayor-elect of Gainesville, Florida
Hollies Winston, Mayor-elect of Brooklyn Park, Minnesota
POTUS exited the WH at 8:22p, joined by FLOTUS and walking hand in hand with his grandson Baby Beau.
He did not stop for questions.
M1 was wheels up at 8:26p.
Via WH Press Office:
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
POTUS arrived back in Delaware at 9:12pm, landing at DANG less than 8 hours after he left for an afternoon and early evening at the White House.
On a crisp and partly cloudy night, he got off Marine One followed by First Lady Jill Biden. Also spotted getting off and boarding one of the cars was Hunter Biden and his wife, Melissa Cohen, and their young son Beau.
POTUS did not hear, or respond to, shouts from the pool to come over and speak.
Motorcade started rolling at 9:19pm.
After a swift and uneventful motorcade, POTUS arrived at his residence around 9:32pm.
A few minutes later, at 9:35pm, a lid was called.