Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning. I'll be your in-town print pooler for today.
Please note the White House guidance on today's schedule has changed to include remarks from POTUS on efforts to tackle inflation at 10 am.
Please reach out with any questions.
In the morning, the President will deliver remarks on our efforts to tackle inflation. These remarks in the Roosevelt Room will be covered by the in-house pool.
December 12, 2022
In the morning, the President will receive the President's Daily Brief. This meeting will be closed press.
In the afternoon, the President will host a ceremony on the South Lawn to sign the Respect for Marriage Act. The Vice President, the First Lady, and the Second Gentleman will attend. This event on the South Lawn will be open press. [RSVP here by 7:00 AM]
Wires: AP, Reuters, Bloomberg
Wire Photos: AP, Reuters, AFP, NYT
TV Corr & Crew: NBC
Print: Los Angeles Times
Radio: AP
[RSVP here by 7:00 AM]
Two minute-warning at 10:25am.
You can watch the president's remarks here:
Apologies for the spotty service.
POTUS entered the Roosevelt Room with economic advisers Cecilia Rouse and Brian Deese. He began speaking at 10:32am and spoke for seven minutes.
Please check against quotes.
POTUS said the latest inflation numbers showed "a lot of good news on the horizon" but there is still work to do.
"Inflation is coming down in America," Biden said. "Make no mistake prices are still too high. We still have work to do."
"For the last several months, wages have gone up more than prices have gone up."
POTUS said it's going to take time to get inflation back to normal levels but "what is clear is that my economic plan is working and we're just getting started," Biden said.
"By taking action we're making real progress in strengthening and stabilizing our economy," he said.
Says there's "bright spots all across America."
He said he would take no questions but stopped to answer one on when he expected prices to get back to normal:
"I hope by the end of next year we're much closer," he said. "But I can't make that prediction. I'm convinced they're not going to up. I'm convinced they're going to continue to go down."
POTUS finished speaking 10:39am.
We have a lunch lid until 2pm.
Two-minute warning for the press briefing.
White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre took the podium at 2:37pm.
She brought a surprise guest with her: Cyndi Lauper, who will be performing at today's signing ceremony for the Respect for Marriage Act.
You can watch here: 
The briefing ended at 3:05pm.
Apologies, we have no service out here.
Pool was escorted out to the South Lawn for the Respect for Marriage bill signing ceremony.
Music was blaring from the loudspeakers as crowds of bundled guests stood on the South Lawn in front of a platform with the White House as the backdrop. Pool could not see the makeshift stage from where we were positioned, but it appeared to be lined with yellow poinsettias.
Senate Majority Leader spoke first, saying passing the Respect For Marriage Act was not only the right thing to do, it was personal. He said the tie he is wearing is the tie he wore on the day his daughter married her wife.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi then spoke - "he took my speech," she joked.
She said the legislation wouldn't have happened without the support of those in the crowd at the grassroots level. She said she was "overwhelmed with emotion" when the House passed the bill last week.
"This is the latest leap forward in our fight for equality," she said, noting advocate work on HIV and combatting hate crime.
Following their remarks, performing artist Sam Smith took the stage and performed "Stay with Me." Cyndi Lauper then performed "True Colors."
After she finished, audio of Biden's 2012 "Meet the Press" interview in which he publicly declared his support for gay marriage played over an instrumental version of "America, the free."
More tk
Gina and Heidi Nortonsmith spoke, reflecting on their case that led to marriage equality in Massachusetts and ultimately, the United States. "Literally, the day that the court validated that our love was equal, we got married."
"It takes the efforts of many to bend the arc of history toward justice. Even now, there are so many places where people in our community are under attack. The work will continue. But look at how far we've come."
POTUS, FLOTUS, VP Harris and SGOTUS took the stage at 3:59pm. Rainbow lights were displayed on the White House.
The VP spoke first by reflecting on the week of Valentine's Day in 2004, when she performed some of the nation's first same-sex marriages at San Francisco City Hall.
"This is a victory and it's part of a larger fight," she said. The Dobbs decision is a reminder that "fundamental rights are interconnected, including the right to marry who you love, the right to access contraception, and the right to make decisions about your own body."
POTUS, wearing his trademark aviators, started speaking at 4:04pm.
"Today is a good day. A day America takes a vital step toward equality."
Deciding who to marry "is one of the most profound decisions a person can make," Biden said, noting he got "in trouble" for making similar comments in 2012.
"Marriage is a simple proposition. Who do you love? And will you be loyal to that person you love?" He said.
"It's not more complicated than that. We all recognize that everyone should have the right to answer those questions for themselves without the government interference," he said.
He thanked Pelosi, Feinstein, Rep. Nadler and others for their work on the fight for marriage equality.
"The road to this moment was long, but those who believe in equality and justice, you never gave up. Many of you standing on the South Lawn here - so many of you put your relationship on the line, your jobs on the line, your lives on the line, to fight for the law of about the sign."
Congress was acting "because of an extreme Supreme Court has stripped away the right important to millions of Americans that existed for half a century," he said, referring to the decision to overturn Roe v. Wade.
"When a person can be married in the morning and thrown out of a restaurant for being gay in the afternoon, this is still wrong," he said.
The antidote to hate is love, he said.
He closed by noting the same day Congress sent him this bill, Britney Griner was freed and on her way home. He recalled his conversation with Griner's wife, Cherelle Griner, who said after they spoke to Britney, "today my family is whole."
POTUS finished speaking at 4:19pm. He took a seat at a desk and signed the bill as Lady Gaga's "Born This Way" began blaring from the loudspeakers and the crowd roared.
POTUS then began working the rope line for about 15 minutes, taking photos with members of the crowd.
The Vice President
The First Lady
The Second Gentleman
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House of Representatives (CA-12)
Secretary Debra Haaland, Department of the Interior
Secretary Marty Walsh, Department of Labor
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, Department of Transportation
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget
Chair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic Advisers
Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, U.S. Senate (NY)
Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA)
Senator Susan Collins (ME)
Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Senator Thom Tillis (NC)
Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
Senator Tammy Baldwin (WI)
Senator Kyrsten Sinema (AZ)
Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01)
Rep. Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Rep. Sharice Davids (KS-03)
Gina and Heidi Nortonsmith, Plaintiffs for 
Members of the LGBTQIA+ community, advocates, and allies
DJ Tezrah
Joy Oladokun
The Gay Men's Chorus
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, House of Representatives (CA-12)
Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, U.S. Senate (NY)
Musical performances
Gina and Heidi Nortonsmith, Plaintiffs for 
The Vice President
The President
We have a travel/photo lid as of 5:07pm.
Have a great night!
One post-lid note from the WH:
There were 5,300 guests in attendance for the President's ceremony on the South Lawn to sign the Respect for Marriage Act.