Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning colleagues,
I am your pooler today. The pool has been summoned earlier than expected. If you've seen the recent news about Brittney Griner, then you likely know why. The president initially had only one event on the schedule this afternoon.
More details to follow!
Here's a look at the detailed schedule today before the change of events:
Pool is waiting in the briefing room for next move.
The president is expected to deliver remarks at 8:30AM ET. It is being live-streamed: 
In case you missed it, POTUS tweeted the following in Griner's release: Moments ago I spoke to Brittney Griner. She is safe. She is on a plane. She is on her way home."
Pool is set up in the Roosevelt Room. Awaiting the president. Name tag for Vice President is spotted by reporters.
2 min warning for POTUS remarks
President Biden and Vice President Harris walked into the Roosevelt Room with Brittney Griner's wife and Secretary Blinken at 8:38 am. Again this is being live streamed.
President said Griner is safe.
"This is a day we worked for a long time"
He thanked the UAE.
"This has been hell" for Griner and her family. Biden said Griner is in good spirits and has experienced "trauma" and will need time.
He assures that Paul Whelan is still a priority.
Cherelle Griner expressed gratitude to the president, VP, Secretary Blinken, Jake Sullivan and others.
The president walked out at 8:45 am.
Biden said Griner will be back home within the next 24 hours.
The pool has a Breakfast/Lunch Lid until 12:00 pm.
2 min warning for press briefing.
Press briefing began at 12:50 pm.
Press briefing ended at 1:40 pm.
The pool is gathered and soon to head over to the South Court Auditorium for President Biden's scheduled remarks at 2:10pm on building a stronger economy for union workers and retirees. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh will be attending, along with Teamster President Sean O’Brien, AFL-CIO President Liz Shuler.
The remarks will be live-streamed at 
.
If you haven't seen the news earlier:
President Biden announced $36 billion for the Central States Pension Fund, preventing drastic cuts to the hard-earned pensions of over 350,000 union workers and retirees.
2 min warning for POTUS remarks.
President Biden walked onto the South Court Auditorium stage at 2:20 pm.
Again, this is being live-streamed on Whitehouse.gov/live, so won’t be sending many quotes.
President Biden was introduced and began his remarks at 2:24 pm. Remarks concluded at 2:32 pm.
The president did not answer to several shouted questions as he shook the hands of the event’s attendees.
The pool received a lid at 2:55 pm.
Have a great rest of your day, everyone!