Pool Reports by 
, 
Good afternoon from the White House, where the weather is overcast and a chilly 41 degrees.
Pool is gathering shortly to travel to President Biden's speech at the U.S.-Africa Business Forum. The event will be held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, roughly a mile from here in the city.
POTUS is scheduled to speak at 1:30, on day 2 of the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit.
Reminder below of today's public schedule. Please note that the 3:40 multilateral meeting is closed press.
host the U.S.-Africa Leaders' Summit dinner; THE VICE PRESIDENT and THE SECOND GENTLEMAN attend
Motorcade is rolling from outside the South Portico at 1:26, headed for the convention center. Pool got a brief glimpse of Biden as he entered the Beast a minute earlier.
Pool is expected to have to hustle to get in position in time for the president's speech. Reminder you can watch the event, which had been set for 1:30, live here: 
White House also passes this along:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route the U.S.-Africa Business Forum at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Keisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement
Curtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Tara Murray, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Public Engagement
Charlie Fromstein, Director of National Security
Motorcade arrived at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center at 1:33, after an uneventful and brief motorcade ride through the heart of DC, past the heavy security perimeter — Humvees and black fencing — set up blocks around summit.
Pool saw POTUS exit the beast at 1:35 and enter the convention center.
Pool now moving to position to cover Biden's speech.
Biden was introduced and took the stage at 1:47. He joked that he would try to keep the remarks short because of the France-Morocco soccer game starting in 12 minutes.
He is delivering the closing remarks at the US-Africa Business Forum.
Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo introduced Biden after giving a short speech touting Biden's commitment to the African continent.
Attending the speech, per the White House:
Secretary Gina Raimondo, Department of Commerce
Approximately 50 Heads of Delegation
Government officials, business leaders, and members of Congress
Biden's speech ended at 2:04.He received a standing ovation as he concluded.
A few highlights. Please, as always, check against the transcript:
Noted at the top that Morocco was the first African nation to reach the World Cup semi-finals. The game was set to kick-off at 2 p.m. EST.
"We can't solve any of these challenges without African leadership at the table, and I'm not trying to be nice. That's a fact."
"The United States is all in on Africa's future."
"Together we want to build a future where no one, no one, is left behind."
Announced a new memorandum of understanding opening new trade opportunities between the US and Africa, and infrastructure investments he said would encourage trade within Africa and help its energy economy transition to clean energy sources. Also announced investments to help Africa "participate in a digital economy."
"Improving Africa's infrastructure is essential to our vision of building a stronger global economy that can better withstand the kinds of shocks that we've seen the past few years."
Pool is now preparing to move back to the motorcade to head back to the White House.
Pool is currently holding in the motorcade in the convention center, awaiting Biden.
After the speech, the pool was quickly escorted out of room where the president spoke — though not before a big TV behind the main stage flipped to the France-Morocco match.
Pool was eventually taken back to the motorcade, though on a different route than POTUS. I've asked what the president did after the speech, and whether he spoke to anybody or watched the soccer game, and will report back if answered.
Motorcade is rolling from the convention center at 2:48.
Pool was shielded from the Beast in the motorcade and did not glimpse the president.
Motorcade arrived on White House grounds at 2:54, after another uneventful ride through DC.
Pool did not see Biden enter the White House arriving back here.
Also this, from the White House, in what Biden was doing after the speech:
The President viewed the World Cup semi-final match between Morocco and France with H.E. Aziz Akhannouch, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco, and other leaders attending the Summit.
White House has called a lunch lid until 6:30
White House passes this along about the multilateral meeting with African leaders he is holding in the White House this afternoon:
Lunch/dinner lid remains until 6:30.
The President is hosting a small group multilateral meeting with leaders.
The President
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
H.E. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese Republic
H.E. Michael Moussa Adamo, Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
H.E. Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. George Manneh Weah, President of the Republic of Liberia
H.E. Dee-Maxwell Saah Kemayah, Sr., Minister of Foreign Affairs
H.E. Julius Maada Bio, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone
T.H. David Francis, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
H.E. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President of the Republic of Madagascar
H.E. Lalatiana Rakotondrazafy Andriatonga Rivo, Minister of Communication and Culture
H.E. Felix Antoine Tshisekedi Tshilombo, President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
T.H. Christophe Lutundula, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs
Pool is gathering at the WH Palm Doors to observe the evening's toasts, as part of tonight's dinner with African leaders. The president, first lady, vice president, and second gentleman are all expected to attend.
The toasts are one of two looks inside tonight's dinner expected by your pooler.
A little color: Marines lined the driveway in the White House's North Lawn, presenting arms each time a car drove by on its way to the North Portico. Pool could not count how many marines were present from our available vantage point, but in the 6 o'clock hour, a long, slow procession of cars was visible.
On a separate note: The White House is illuminated green tonight, in observance of the 10-year anniversary of the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting
The White House passes this along about the green illumination:
"We are lighting the White House green to provide a visual symbol of each of the 26 lives lost, their families, and the survivors. All of the families honor their loved ones in unique ways, including through different symbols and colors – and green is the color many of the families who lost loved ones in the Sandy Hook shooting used in ribbons and memorials in the early days after the shooting."
Pool was escorted into the East Room for the night's toasts at 7:10.
Two long tables, decorated by candles and flowers, were arranged in the East Room for the occasion. When most of the guests had taken their seats, the president walked to the front of the room and began his toast behind a lectern.
Biden noted that the theme this year's decorations at the White House was, "we the people."
"Our people lie at the heart of the deep and profound connection that forever binds Africa and the United States together. We remember the stolen men and women and children were brought to our shores and chains subjected to unimaginable cruelty."
"My nation's original sin was that period."
Mentioned that former president Barack Obama first convened a US-Africa summit during his presidency
"So please join me in raising your glass, if I can find one. Raise your glass to the people of America, to the people of the United States, to the people of Africa, and to the promise and potential of our partnership here."
Please check all quotes against the transcript.
Senegalese President Macky Sall spoke after Biden, delivering a toast and thanking POTUS for the invitation.
Pool was escorted out of the East Room at 7:23. Fuller transcript to come.
Lots of incoming information from the White House on tonight's dinner:
In attendance for the President and the First Lady's U.S. - Africa Leaders' Summit Dinner:
The Vice President
The Second Gentleman
Leaders
The White House also announced that legendary singer Gladys Knight would perform at tonight's dinner, and that the St. Augustine Gospel Choir of Washington D.C. performed before the toast started.
Here's tonight's menu, per the White House, with background information on the chef who prepared it:
Roasted Butternut Squash Bisque
Maryland Blue Crab
Spiced Oil
Seared Sea Bass
Black-eyed Peas
Peppers and Preserved Lemons
Field Greens
Feta Cheese and Pickled Peppers
Red Wine Vinaigrette
Banana Pudding
Whipped Cream
Paul Hobbs Chardonnay 'Russian River Valley' 2020
Roserock Pinot Noir 'Zéphireine' 2017
Schamsberg Crémant Demi-Sec 2015
Named "the most important chef in America" by the Financial Times, Mashama Bailey is the award-winning executive chef and co-founder of the critically acclaimed The Grey and its all-day counterpart The Grey Market in Savannah, Georgia. Along with her co-founder and business partner Johno Morisano, their Grey Spaces hospitality group opened two new restaurants in 2022: the Diner Bar and The Grey Market in Austin, which was lauded by The Austin American-Statesman and Austin Monthly Magazine as one of the city's Best New Restaurants, for its distinct take on Port City Southern fare.
Born in the Bronx and raised in Queens with maternal roots in Georgia, Mashama attended grammar school in Savannah. She first learned to cook at the hands of the women in her family and her formal education includes the Institute of Culinary Education (ICE) in New York City as well as LaVarenne in Burgundy, France. Prior to opening The Grey, Mashama's career includes a dozen years cooking throughout New York City, the last four of which were at Prune on Manhattan's Lower East Side under the tutelage of Gabrielle Hamilton. In 2019 and with the premier of Netflix's Chef's Table Season 6, Mashama became the first African American chef to star on the show. In 2022, her story was featured on the TODAY show as part of a series on inspiring women alongside the likes of Michelle Obama.
Together with Morisano, Mashama co-wrote Black, White and The Grey (Ten Speed Press/Penguin Random House) which explores the business partners' challenges navigating race, class and culture while building businesses, relationships, and community in the South, as featured on CBS Sunday Morning.
Winner of the 2022 James Beard Outstanding Chef -- the first Black woman to receive the honor -- and winner of the 2019 James Beard Best Chef: Southeast, Mashama serves as the chairwoman of the Edna Lewis Foundation, whose mission is to honor and extend the legacy of Edna Lewis by creating opportunities for African Americans in the fields of cooking, agriculture, food studies, and storytelling.
In addition, here is additional background information on the night's entertainers:
Knight was recognized this year for her lifetime achievement in the arts as a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors, and a seven-time GRAMMY Award winner with No. 1 hits in Pop, Gospel, R&B, and Adult Contemporary. In addition to her legendary musical success, Knight has also excelled across genres including film, television, and live performance.
Knight has recorded more than 38 albums over the years, including four solo albums: "Good Woman" (1991); "Just for You" (1994); the inspirational "Many Different Roads" (1999); and "At Last" (2001). Over a decades-long career, Knight's devoted fans have followed to her national and international stages, singing along to her classics and current songs, such as her 2014 dance single, "Just A Little." Knight, who is a tw0-time GRAMMY winner in the gospel category, also returned to her gospel roots with the release of her inspirational album Where My Heart Belongs (2014) which won an NAACP Image Award for "Outstanding Gospel Album."
As an actress, Knight has appeared as a guest star in the hit show Star (FOX) and appearing in the film Almost Christmas (2016), both produced and directed by Lee Daniels. She appeared on ABC's 14th season of Dancing With The Stars (2012), competed on The Masked Singer (2019), and sang the National Anthem at Super Bowl LIII in Atlanta. She was recently honored by the 45th Kennedy Center Honors (2022) for Lifetime Artistic Achievements. She currently resides in Atlanta, Georgia.
The Saint Augustine Gospel Choir was established in 1977 by Rev. Raymond Kemp, then the pastor of St. Augustine. The Choir's repertoire consists of African American spirituals, hymns, and contemporary Gospel music. The Biden's have featured the choir numerous times while he was Vice President, and the choir performed at the White House during Black History Month last year.
Here's a fuller transcript of what President Biden said during his toast. Please check all quotes against the official transcript:
The president welcomed everyone in attendance before discussing what the theme of this year's White House holiday decorations was.
"And the theme this year was, 'We the people.' These are the first words of our Constitution, and the very idea of America. And they're the leading words of many of your constitutions."
The phrase "reminds us that our country's greatest strength lies in just that, our people."
"Our people lie at the heart of the deep and profound connection that forever binds Africa and the United States together. We remember the stolen men and women and children who were brought to our shores in chains, subjected to unimaginable cruelty. My nation's Original Sin was that period."
"We honor their descendants, who ... for generations have helped build this country and propel it to higher heights, leading the charge, blazing new trails and forging a better future for everyone in America."
The president cited the "African diaspora community" in the country, one that includes his "former boss," Barack Obama. He said Obama convened the first U.S.-Africa summit, before saying that a country's people "inspire" its leaders.
"They tell us hard truths that we need to hear. And sometimes we have trouble listening. They challenge us to live up to the values enshrined in so many of our founding documents and to be worthy of the responsibility given to us by that sacred trust, we the people."
Biden said he has "never been more optimistic" about the shared future between Africa and the United States.
"So please join me in raising your glass, if I can find one. Raise your glass to the people of America, to the people of the United States, to the people of Africa, and to the promise and potential of our partnership here."
Biden then introduced Senagalese President Macky Sall, who is also chairperson of the African Union. He thanked Biden for the work he and his administration had put into the summit.
"We want to advance our common agenda with you and take our partnership to the next level in an inclusive approach, bringing together governments, the private sector, civil society and the African diaspora. We have been walking in this direction since our arrival to Washington, D.C., and we are confident that our summit will produce results that reflects our shared commitment."
Sall then toasted President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden.
THe White House passes this along:
The President and the First Lady participated in a photoline with:
H.E. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of Cameroon
Mrs. Chantal Biya, First Lady of the Republic of Cameroon
H.E. Yoweri Kaguta Museveni, President of the Republic of Uganda
Mrs. Natasha Karugire, Daughter of the President of the Republic of Uganda
H.E. Denis Sassou N'guesso, President of the Republic of the Congo
H.E. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of the Republic of Djibouti
H.E. Paul Kagame, President of the Republic of Rwanda
H.E. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese Republic
H.E. Sylvia Bongo Ondimba, First Lady of the Gabonese Republic
H.E. Macky Sall, President of the Republic of Senegal
H.E. Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, President of the Arab Republic of Egypt
H.E. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi, President of the Republic of Mozambique
H.E. Isaura Nyusi, First Lady of the Republic of Mozambique
H.E. Hage Gottfried Geingob, President of the Republic of Namibia
Madam Monica Geingos, First Lady of the Republic of Namibia
H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
H.E. Faustin Archange Touadera, President of the Central African Republic
H.E. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic of Ghana
H.E. Rebecca Akufo-Addo, First Lady of the Republic of Ghana
H.E. João Manuel Gonçalves Lourenço, President of the Republic of Angola
T.H. Ana Dias Lourenço, First Lady of the Republic of Angola
H.E. George Manneh Weah, President of the Republic of Liberia
Mrs. Clar Marie Weah, First Lady of the Republic of Liberia
H.E. Julius Maada Bio, President of the Republic of Sierra Leone
H.E. Dr. Fatima Maada Bio, First Lady of the Republic of Sierra Leone
H.E. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President of the Republic of Madagascar
Mrs. Mialy Rajoelina, First Lady of the Republic of Madagascar
H.E. Azali Assoumani, President of the Union of the Comoros
H.E. Ambari Azali, First Lady of the Union of the Comoros
H.E. Mohamed Ould Cheikh El Ghazouani, President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Madam Mariem Dah, First Lady of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania
H.E. Kais Saied, President of the Republic of Tunisia
Mrs. Ichraf Chebil Ep Saied, First Lady of the Republic of Tunisia
H.E. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi, President of the Republic of Botswana
H.E. Neo Jane Masisi, First Lady of the Republic of Botswana
H.E. Umaro Sissoco Embaló, President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
H.E. Evariste Ndayishimiye, President of the Republic of Burundi
H.E. Angeline Ndayishimiye, First Lady of the Republic of Burundi
H.E. Lazarus McCarthy Chakwera, President of the Republic of Malawi
H.E. Wavel John Charles Ramkalawan, President of the Republic of Seychelles
H.E. Mohamed Younis Menfi, President of the Presidential Council of the State of Libya
H.E. Samia Suluhu Hassan, President of the United Republic of Tanzania
H.E. Mohamed Bazoum, President of the Republic of Niger
Mrs. Khadija Bazoum, First Lady of the Republic of Niger
H.E. Hakainde Sammy Hichilema, President of the Republic of Zambia
H.E. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud, President of the Federal Republic of Somalia
H.E. William Ruto, President of the Republic of Kenya
Mrs. Rachel Ruto, First Lady of the Republic of Kenya
H.E. Mahamat Idriss Deby Itno, President of Transition Republic of Chad
H.E. Ulisses Correia E Silva, Prime Minister of the Republic of Cabo Verde
H.E. Elsa Correia E Silva, Spouse of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Cabo Verde
T.H. Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius
Mrs. Kabita Jugnauth, Spouse of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius
H.E. Abiy Ahmed Ali, Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
H.E. Zinash Tayachew, Spouse of the Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
H.E. Aïmene Benabderrahmane, Prime Minister of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria
T.R.H. Cleopas Sipho Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Eswatini
Ms. Lomvula Hlophe, Spouse of the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Eswatini
H.E. Aziz Akhannouch, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Morocco
H.E. Patrick Achi, Prime Minister of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
T.R.H. Ntsokoane Samuel Matekane, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Lesotho
H.E. Patrice Emery Trovoada, Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe
H.E. Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson for the Commission of the African Union
H.E. Mamadou Tangara, Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Gambians Abroad of the Republic of The Gambia
H.E. Naledi Grace Mandisa Pandor, Minister for International Relations & Cooperation of the Republic of South Africa
T.H. Frederick Makamure Shava, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of the Republic of Zimbabwe
Mrs. Beatrice Foya Shava, Spouse of the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Zimbabwe
T.H. Mayiik Ayii Deng, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Transitional Government of South Sudan
After a delay, pool was led into the State Dining Room at 8:48 for our glimpse into the night's entertainment.
Gladys Knight was introduced two minutes later, entering the room to applause. The president and First Lady sat in the front row, where the legendary singer gave the couple a little wave.
Knight sang The Best Thing That Ever Happened. Pool could not judge the president's reaction, as he was facing away from our location.
Pool was escorted out after the song even as the performance continued at 8:54.
And we have a lid for the night at 8:58. Enjoy your evening, everyone.
 
Pool Reports below by 
, 
Hello all,
I'm your supplemental foreign pooler for the President's remarks.
I'm already in the room where leaders and delegations are gathered.
Spotted before the arrival, Rwadan President Paul Kagame talking to Malawi President Lazarus Chakwera, then Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema.
At another table, George Weah, President of Liberia (as well as football/soccer legend and father of USMNT player Tim Weah)
Egyptian President Abdel Fatta El-Sisi walked in with his delegation at 1:37pm.
John Kerry & Samantha Power posed for pictures.
Tony Blinken is also here speaking with multiple guests but I was too far to see exactly who.
POTUS opened his remarks by acknowledging he had to be mindful of time because of the World Cup:
"There's a semifinal game coming on"
There was a round of applause when POTUS noted Morocco was the first African nation to reach the semifinals of the World Cup. (Your pooler's heart is with the opposing team, France!)
Hi! I am the foreign pooler today. This might be helpful to some colleagues. Sending you proactively.
-----
Senegalese President and chairman of the African Union (AU) Macky Sall spoke after Biden and delivered the second toast.
He thanked President bBiden for the invitation. "On behalf of my African colleagues I thank the president for this wonderful dinner in the occasion of the second U.S.-African summit."
"We appreciate the time and effort you and your Administration have devoted to the preparatory process of the summit over the past several months. This is a testimony of our long standing diverse and vital relations"
"This afternoon, Mr. President during the Business Summit, your speech was so powerful, so inspiring, so positive, for our common feature."
"We share the same spirits. We want to advance our common agenda with you and bring our partnership to the next level, in an inclusive approach, bringing together governments, the private sector, civil society and the African diaspora."
"We have been working in this direction since our arrival in Washington DC. And we are confident that our summit will produce results that reflect our share commitment"
"On behalf of Africa I invite all of you to join me for a toast in honor of our host, President Joseph Biden, first lady Jill Biden, in honor of the American people and for the reinforcement of American-African friendship and cooperation. I thank you."
Please check all quotes against the transcript.