Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning!
I'm your print pooler for FLOTUS this morning.
First Lady Dr. Jill Biden will host a spousal program as part of the U.S.-Africa Leaders' Summit. The event is being held at the REACH at the Kennedy Center for Performing Arts to advance mutual priorities with the spouses of African leaders. Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff is also participating.
Pool is tested and motorcade is heading toward the Kennedy Center for FLOTUS arrival. Program is scheduled to start at 11 am.
:
The First Lady will greet spouses as they arrive. After, spouses will have the opportunity to engage with private sector and non-profit organizations. This portion of the program is closed press.
The First Lady will deliver remarks and amplify new federal government and private sector commitments, in support of the Cancer Moonshot. Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will participate in the program and deliver remarks.
After, the First Lady will host a conversation called, 
Ambassador John Nkengasong, the Biden Administration's PEPFAR (United States President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief) Coordinator, will moderate the conversation. After the conversation, the First Lady will host a lunch for the spouses of African leaders. This lunch will be closed press.
Pool arrived to the event space to a harp playing "Somewhere Over the Rainbow."
We are now gathered in a holding room. We'll be here for some time as spouses arrive ahead of the 11amprogram. There are 23 spouses expected to attend.
Pool entered the room at 11:01 am.
Second Gentleman Emhoff gave remarks as FLOTUS stood beside him. She is wearing an ocean blue dress. African spouses (21) are seated on plush white couches arranged in a circular fashion.
Second Gentleman welcomed Kalkidan Tadesse at 11:05am. Tadesse is an alumna of USAID's Young African Leaders Initiative.
FLOTUS to give remarks soon.
Pool learned that the First Ladies of Ethiopia and Madagascar did not attend the event.
Dr. Biden began remarks at 11:09.
Dr. Biden thanked the Kennedy Center for its partnership with the White House.
She said when President Biden was elected, she made a promise that she would never waste her platform and wanting to use shine a light on the issues" she cares.
"I knew I wasn't elected but I knew I had a part to play." On being a spouse to head of state: "It's a unique experience that few people understand."
"When we invest in our communities, our youth have more opportunities to succeed." She emphasized investing in young girls.
She said every spouse has likely been affected by cancer in some way, and stressed why it's important for the U.S. government to invest in combating cancer globally. She added that the government has invested $300 million to preventing and combating cancer.
The First Lady said she has visited the continent of Africa five times.
"I learned that people may forget what you said, but they will never forget how you made them feel."
"We may not remember every word that is said here today. but my hope is that the way we make each other feel will last beyond this summit."
She introduced moderator Ambassador John Nkengasong at 11:16am.
After giving opening remarks, Ambassador Nkengasong began the panel discussion at 11:22am.
Topic of discussion is what spouses are doing in their respective nations to prevent and treat cancer and AIDS and the challenges they face. The First Lady of Democratic Republic of Congo was the first to give remarks. The First Lady intently listened to translation monitor in her ear as she spoke.
First Lady of Libera, who is sitting behind Dr. Biden, gave remarks next. The First Lady turned around to face her as she spoke.
Liberian First Lady said she is particularly concerned about breast cancer.
Dr. Biden smiled as Liberian First Lady noted that the president considers himself to be a "feminist in chief."
The floor was opened by Ambassador Nkengasong for a "free flowing" conversation to continue the discussion on cancer prevention and awareness.
Botswana First Lady took the mic and thanked FLOTUS for convening the spouses for the event. She called Second Gentleman Emhoff "the best gentleman" to which both FLOTUS and SGOTUS had a brief chuckle.
First Lady of Namibia stood up to give remarks because she had "way too much energy." She mentioned how spouses often give up their jobs and what they were doing before their spouses were elected to support their spouses in leadership.
She stressed the need for inter-generational dialogue on health-related issues and talked about Namibia "Be Free" movement targeting intervention and prevention services for young people.
First Lady of Equatorial Guinea gave remarks next with Spanish translator. She highlighted the issue of cervical cancer and a lack of public health hospitals. There is a lack of public health knowledge for women to get screened for cancer, she said. The government has created programs to help close the gap.
She emphasized that events like Dr. Biden's Cancer Moonshot summit is so important so that the spouses can learn from each other.
Dr. Biden listened closely and nodded throughout as first ladies spoke.
More background on the event from FLOTUS office:
Leaders across U.S. departments and agencies and the private sector have demonstrated unwavering commitment to improve cancer outcomes in countries in Africa through a number of 
 These include efforts to strengthen national public health infrastructure and build resilient healthcare systems, as well as funding for robust and impactful initiatives across the African continent on cancer prevention, screening, treatment, and research totaling approximately $300 million.
On Tuesday, December 13th, the Biden-Harris Administration released a 
 on its partnership with governments and institutions in Africa, including the African Union (AU) and Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), to advance shared public health goals. Since the beginning of the Biden-Harris Administration, the United States has invested and committed to provide nearly $20 billion in health programs in the African region.
For decades, the United States has partnered with African nations to meet shared health challenges, working together to invest billions of dollars and saving countless lives. However, despite much progress, non-communicable diseases like cancer are now estimated to lead all causes of death across the African continent. A new Lancet Oncology commission for sub-Saharan Africa estimates more than one million cancer deaths will occur per year in those countries by 2040. There are actions we can take to prevent this outcome.
As Vice President, in 2016, Joe Biden led the Cancer Moonshot with the mission to accelerate the rate of progress against cancer. The cancer advocacy, patient, research and health care communities responded with tremendous energy and ingenuity. Now, President Biden and Dr. Biden have reignited the Cancer Moonshot and set new national goals: if we work together, we can cut the death rate from cancer by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years, and improve the experience of people and their families living with and surviving cancer.
The Cancer Moonshot's mission extends around the world. The Cancer Moonshot's global work is focused on equity, including increasing access to screening, treatments, tools, and resources for all cancer patients and their families, especially to lower- and middle-income countries that have less access. Some of the First Lady's recent global work includes engagements in Spain at the Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (Spanish Association Against Cancer) with Queen Letizia during the NATO Summit, in Costa Rica at theNational Children's Hospital, and in New York at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center during the United Nations General Assembly.
The Organization of African First Ladies for Development (OAFLAD) prioritizes addressing non-communicable diseases, including cancers, and improving women's and children's health. This focus is a recognition of the growing cancer burden in Africa. Recently, OAFLAD members issued a joint appeal for more effective measures to fight cancer and use innovative technologies for cancer screening, diagnosis, treatment, and palliative care. The World Health Organization, together with large international cancer organizations, agree that eliminating cervical cancer and decreasing the impact of childhood and breast cancers is a top priority. Many First Ladies in Africa who are attending the U.S.-Africa Leaders' Summit have started cancer-related initiatives.
The First Lady will be joined by 23 spouses of African leaders:
Additional Participants:

Private sector partners gave brief remarks about the work they are doing on the ground in Africa to combat cancer and other diseases on the continent.
At 12:16, the floor was opened up again to the first ladies. In her opening remarks, First Lady of Sierra Leone thanked FLOTUS and other spouses for attending.
She called SGOTUS Emhoff "the most cherished member of our club right now," adding, "We don't normally get men in this cabinet." Both Dr. Biden and Emhoff laughed at the comment.
Dr. Biden seemed especially engaged as she listened to First Lady of Sierra Leone talk about the importance of health education.
First Ladies of the Republic of Mauritius and Ghana spoke next. First Lady of Ghana highlighted the "gaps" in cancer, including knowledge, facility access, "lifestyle practices" and cost of treatment.
The panel talk concluded at 12:44. Dr. Biden and the other spouses remained seated and the pool was escorted out of the event room at 12:46.
The pool returned to the White House at 1:06pm. First Lady Dr. Biden is now having lunch with the spouses.
That's a wrap for your pooler!