Pool Reports by 
, 
Good morning!
I'm your print pooler for First Lady Dr. Jill Biden's final event for the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Spousal Program. She is hosting a brunch for the spouses of African leaders.
Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff is also attending.
Your pooler is also the only member of pool for this event — a first!
Motorcade arrived at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture around 10:05 am. Currently holding in a room as FLOTUS greets the African First Ladies.
:
On Thursday, December 15th, at 10:15 AM ET, for the final event of the two-day U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit Spousal Program, the First Lady will host a brunch for spouses of African leaders at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. The event will feature guest speaker, author and culinary historian, Dr. Jessica B. Harris. The First Lady will deliver brief opening remarks. The Second Gentleman will attend. This event will be covered by a print pooler and video coverage will be made available at 
.
Jessica B. Harris is the author, editor, or translator of eighteen books including twelve cookbooks documenting the foods and foodways of the African Diaspora. She has lectured widely in the United States and abroad and has written extensively for scholarly and popular publications. Harris consults internationally, most recently for the New York Botanical Gardens, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Museum of Food and Drink, and the Smithsonian Museum of African American History and Culture on their cafeteria. She holds degrees from Bryn Mawr College, Queens College/CUNY, The Université de Nancy, France, and New York University. Harris received an honorary doctorate of humane letters from Johnson & Wales University and holds lifetime achievement awards from the Southern Foodways Alliance and the Soul Summit. She was elected to the James Beard Who's Who of Food and Drink in America and was inducted into the Cookbook Hall of Fame for her body of work and received their Lifetime Achievement award in 2020.In 2021 she was named one of TIME magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. In 2022, she received the "Auggie" Auguste Escoffier award from the Culinary Institute of America and High on the Hog: the docuseries won an NAACP image award and a Peabody. Dr. Harris was a professor at Queens College/CUNY. in New York for five decades and is currently professor emerita at that institution.
The NMAAHC is the only national museum devoted exclusively to the documentation of African American life, history, and culture. It was established by an Act of Congress in 2003, following decades of efforts to promote and highlight the contributions of African Americans. To date, the NMAAHC has collected more than 40,000 artifacts and nearly 100,000 individuals have become members. The NMAAHC opened to the public on September 24, 2016, as the 19th museum of the Smithsonian Institution.
Pool was brought into a room where FLOTUS is hosting the brunch with African First Ladies at 11:09am.
FLOTUS began her remarks at 11:10am, opting to step away from the podium and mic and instead speak to attendees as she walked around the room.
"I feel so weird. I'm gonna walk down," said Dr. Biden. "I'm a teacher. I mean, I just have to walk around."
She highlighted the African American museum's dark history, and how it can be used to strengthen relationships.
"This special place really preserves the memory of some of our nation's darkest moments. But it also features some of the what is the best to come in the United States."
"I brought you here because I wanted to really explore and celebrate the sheer cultures and traditions that connect us that continue, really and strengthen our relationships today."
She also noted the significance of the food.
"We know food fills our stomachs, but also feeds our souls," said Dr. Biden.
She said the lunch being served for lunch showcase "many of the foods that Americans eat every day, and they're part of the traditions that transplant to the to the countries throughout the African continent."
The First Lady then introduced prepared by Dr. Jessica Harris, who is an author culinary scholar, and sat back at her table. The tables and the event space are very small. The SGOTUS is seated at a separate table across the room.
Here's a list of the participants, per FLOTUS office:
The First Lady is joined by 10 spouses of African leaders:
Pool was ushered out at 11:22am just after Dr. Harris' remarks. Shortly after Harris' remarks, Dr. Biden said, "Shall we eat?"
FLOTUS and attendees are now having lunch.
Your pooler is heading back to the White House complex.
For the final pool report, please see the below correction on FLOTUS' remarks:
"I brought you here because I wanted to really explore and celebrate the 
 cultures and traditions that connect us that continue ... and strengthen our relationships today."
No further updates from the FLOTUS office. Take care!