Pool Reports by 
, 
Hey all,
I'll be your pooler today, a cool and cloudy day in Washington. The only event on President Biden's schedule today is a Marine Corps reserve Toys for Tots at Joint Base Fort Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia.
The press briefing is set for 3 pm, with National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan joining.
Pool has gathered at the stakeout location for the President and FLOTUS' trip out to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall.
Pool is loaded into vans and rolling at 12:19 p.m.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, Arlington, Virginia:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady
Elizabeth Alexander, Deputy Assistant to the President & Communications Director for the First Lady
Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary and Senior Advisor
Ryan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Rory Brosius, Special Assistant to the President & Executive Director of Joining Forces
Libby Jamison, Joining Forces Senior Advisor
Here is a lot more background on Toys for Tots and Joining Forces from the White House, including the speaking program for today's event:
Today, as part of the First Lady's 
 initiative, the President and the First Lady are traveling to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall in Arlington, Virginia to participate in a U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) Reserve Toys for Tots event, in celebration of Toys for Tots' 75th anniversary. They will join spouses of senior Department of Defense and Service Leadership and local military children in sorting donated toys for distribution to families in need ahead of the holidays.
In 2021, the First Lady participated in the annual drive at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall. This year, the First Lady continues to raise awareness for the program and encourage holiday gift donations for children across the nation. This event is part of the First Lady's Joining Forces initiative to support those who also serve: families of service members and veterans, caregivers, and survivors.
The President and First Lady will be joined by:
Speaking program:
The mission of the Marine Toys for Tots Foundation is to assist the U.S. Marine Corps in achieving its goal of delivering hope and happiness in the form of gifts to less fortunate children at Christmas, during disaster recovery, and other areas in need of emotional support. The U.S. Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots Program is an official activity of the U.S. Marine Corps and the Marine Corps' premier community action program. From 1947- 2021, U.S. Marines and volunteers distributed 627 million toys to over 281 million less fortunate children. Today, Toys for Tots is our Nation's flagship Christmas charitable cause with local Toys for Tots campaigns conducted from October through December each year in over 800 communities throughout the country.
First Lady Jill Biden reignited Joining Forces in April 2021, after its inception with former First Lady Michelle Obama in 2011. Joining Forces is First Lady Jill Biden's initiative to support military families, which includes: families of service members and veterans, caregivers and survivors. Joining Forces' work is driven by their experiences. Learn more here: 
After an uneventful drive through D.C. and Arlington, pool arrived at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall at 12:31.
The event is set for a gym on the base. The tots have gathered in front of the podium, with plenty of unwrapped toys surround them. Toys for Tots boxes are stacked throughout the gym.
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady were greeted upon arrival at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall, Arlington, Virginia by:
Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del Toro
Mrs. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the Navy
Lieutenant General David Bellon, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
Mrs. Sue Bellon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David Bellon
Sergeant Major Carlos Ruiz, U.S. Marine Corps, Sergeant Major of Marine Forces South and Marine Forces Reserve
Lieutenant General James Laster, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.), President and Chief Executive Officer of Marine Corps Toys for Tots Foundation
The event opened with Lt. Gen. David Bellon, commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, discussing how Toys for Tots had helped 281 million children over 75 years before introducing FLOTUS.
FLOTUS discussed her love for the book "How The Grinch Stole Christmas!," mentioning she dressed up as the Grinch for an event when she was Second Lady. She then invited up a child to read a few pages from the book.
She talked with the children about their life as military children, and asked them to guess how many Christmas Trees were at the White House. (The correct answer: 77.)
FLOTUS then introduced Samara Donahue, the daughter of Col. Shane Donahue, who plans to follow Biden as president of the United States. "She just needs to finish school first, and wait 25 years until she becomes eligible," Jill said.
Donahue introduced POTUS.
"When I was that age, I could hardly say my name public," Biden said, complimenting Samara.
"Jill and I know how much you sacrifice," Biden said to the gathered marines. "When our son Beau was deployed to Iraq, it was hard to look at the empty chair at our table every night during the holidays. And it was hard for our granddaughters when their dad wasn't there on Christmas morning."
"You have to be brave, even when your mommies and daddies are far away. They're so proud of you," Biden said to the children.
"Now let's get sorting these gifts," Biden said, shortly before a Marine band started playing "We Wish You A Merry Christmas."
President Biden, FLOTUS some of the gathered Marines and the children all sorted toys, with the president stopping frequently to chat with marines and children.
Pool was hustled out of the gym at 1:04 p.m.
The President and the First Lady sort toys with Department of Defense Senior Spouses.
Lieutenant General David Bellon, USMC, Commander, Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
Mrs. Sue Bellon, Wife of Lieutenant General David Bellon
Samara Donahue, Daughter of Colonel Shane Donahue, U.S. Marine Corps, and Mrs. Gulnaz Donahue
Mrs. Hollyanne Milley, Spouse of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark A. Milley
Mrs. Maria McConville, Spouse of the U.S. Army Chief of Staff General James C. McConville
Mrs. Donna Berger, Spouse of the Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps General David H. Berger
Mrs. Stacie Black, Spouse of the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Sergeant Major Troy E. Black
Mrs. Jennifer Saltzman, Spouse of the Chief of Operations of the Space Force General B. Chance Saltzman
Ms. Rachel Rush, Spouse of the Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force Chief Master Sergeant Roger A. Towberman
Mrs. Kelly Hokanson, Spouse of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau General Daniel R. Hokanson
Mrs. Sherry Poulin, Spouse of the Vice Commandant of the Coast Guard Admiral Steven D. Poulin
Mrs. Janet Col贸n, Air Force Veteran and spouse of the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Ram贸n Col贸n-L贸pez
Mrs. Evelyn Honea, Spouse of the Senior Enlisted Leader of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command Fleet Master Chief James Honea, U.S. Navy
Pool has gathered back in vans and is heading back to the WH at 1:22 p.m.
More background from the WH:
Prior to the United States Marine Corps Reserve Toys for Tots event, the President and the First Lady participated in a photoline with:
Secretary of the Navy Carlos Del Toro
Mrs. Betty Del Toro, Spouse of the Secretary of the Navy
Lieutenant General David Bellon, U.S. Marine Corps, Commander of Marine Forces South and U.S. Marine Forces Reserve
Mrs. Sue Bellon, Spouse of Lieutenant General David Bellon
Sergeant Major Carlos Ruiz, U.S. Marine Corps, Sergeant Major of Marine Forces South and Marine Forces Reserve
Lieutenant General James Laster, U.S. Marine Corps (Ret.), President and Chief Executive Officer of Marine Corps Toys for Tots Foundation
Colonel Shane Donahue
Mr. Andrew Ryan, Deputy for Operations and Strategic Communications for the Office of Marine Forces Reserve
Major John Pomy, Materiel Coordination Officer for the Office of Marine Forces Reserve
Second Lieutenant Kara Paradowski, Action Officer for the Office of Marine Forces Reserve
Second Lieutenant Kara Kelly, Action Officer for the Office of Marine Forces Reserve
Staff Sergeant Fay Stafford, Senior Enlisted Advisor / Admin Chief, Office of the Marine Forces Reserve
Staff Sergeant James Kim, Operations Chief, Office of the Marine Forces Reserve
Sergeant Bryon Mesa, Operations Non-Commissioned Officer, Office of the Marine Forces Reserve
Charles Fazzino, Artist and Designer of this year's Toys for Tots Art
Sue Kelly, Spouse of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark A. Milley
Pool arrived back at the WH at 1:34 p.m.
The WH has called a lunch lid. The briefing is at 3 p.m.
There was a two-minute warning for the press briefing at 3:22 p.m.
The briefing ended at 4:31 p.m.
As of 4:36 p.m., we have a lid. Have a good evening, everyone.