Pool Reports by 
, 
Hey all -- I'm your pooler for the Second Gentleman's roundtable on the rise of antisemitism in the United States. Below is background from his office.
Today, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will convene a roundtable with Jewish leaders on the rise in antisemitism and efforts to combat hate at the White House at 11AM ET. He will be joined by leaders representing a wide range of the Jewish community including Reform, Conservative, and Orthodox denominations.
"Right now, there is an epidemic of hate facing our country."
"Let me be clear: words matter. People are no longer saying the quiet parts out loud, they are screaming them."
"We cannot normalize this. We all have an obligation to condemn these vile acts. We must not stay silent. There is no either or. There are no two sides. Everyone must be against this."
"For me, this is not the end. This is just the beginning of this conversation. And as long as I have this microphone, I am going to speak out against hate, bigotry, and lies."
"On days like today, I think back to Ellis Island. I think about my family members and I think of the promise of America. That a young boy from Brooklyn – who's family fled persecution – could be sitting here today as the first Second Gentleman of the United States in the White House."


I'm in pain right now. Perpetuating lies, such as the denial of the Holocaust, and praising fascist murderers, is dangerous and fans the flames of antisemitism and hate. We all have an obligation to condemn these vile acts. We must not stay silent.
I stopped by Maccabee's Kosher Deli in Des Moines, Iowa and met Rabbi Yossi. We talked about how much it means to us to live proudly and openly as Jewish Americans. It's imperative that we come together as a nation to fight against antisemitism and hate of all kinds.
Four years ago, a gunman killed 11 beloved members of the Tree of Life community and wounded six more. We honor their memories and our hearts are with their families. We must end the scourge of gun violence and fight antisemitism and hatred wherever it exists.
The Jewish community is facing an epidemic of hate. We must all stand united and speak out against antisemitism. No person of any faith should have to fear violence because of what they believe.
On 
, the memories – the sights, smells and sounds – all come rushing back to me. My family gathering at my grandmother's house, in Brooklyn, as she cooks the brisket in the kitchen. The warm challah awaiting us on the table. The spread of cut apples and honey. The talk of what we hope will be a year of sweetness, possibility and joy.
It was in the course of these annual traditions, every Rosh Hashanah, where I initially came to understand the meaning of the 
 and grasped the importance of this time of introspection. Rosh Hashanah is an important time to reflect and recount on the good and the bad of the past year.
Last year, Kamala and I affixed the first mezuzah on the doorposts and hosted the first Passover seder at the vice president's official residence. As we entered this new year, I asked multifaith college students to join me at our home to discuss the meaning of Rosh Hashanah. We talked about values, beliefs and what we will recommit ourselves to in this new year. I was inspired by their intentions to stand up for justice, to serve their communities and to listen to their fellow neighbors.
I shared with the group my plan to recommit to fighting against hate and antisemitism.
No one should have to worry about violence when worshipping how they choose. During a trip to Pittsburgh, Kamala and I met with Rabbi Hazzan Jeffrey Myers 
, where a horrific antisemitic assault stole the lives of 11 innocent people in 2018. We have also met with Ruth Cohen, who was born in Mukachevo, Czechoslovakia, in 1930. She was imprisoned in Nazi concentration camps, including Auschwitz, and her family members, including her mother, brother and cousins, were murdered during the Holocaust. Seeing their continued courage and strength impacted me.
We need to fight antisemitism in all its forms. We can do that by raising awareness and continuing to amplify our voices. As we look forward to the new year, we must continue working toward building an inclusive society for all that is free of bigotry and bias, and commit ourselves to combating antisemitism and hatred wherever it exists.
Rosh Hashanah is about asking a simple yet profound question: What kind of world do we want to live in? I hope that you will take time with your families and loved ones to reflect on the past, and recommit to focusing on an issue that will help to make the world we live in a little sweeter.
From our family to yours, "shana tovah u'metuka" – may you have a happy, healthy and sweet new year.
As we grieve this deadliest act of antisemitism in American history, we stand with the community of Squirrel Hill—and Jewish communities across America and around the world—in resolving to combat antisemitism and hate in all of its forms. This is especially true as we witness an ugly increase in antisemitism in America
As we grieve this deadliest act of antisemitism in American history, we stand with the community of Squirrel Hill—and Jewish communities across America and around the world—in resolving to combat antisemitism and hate in all of its forms. This is especially true as we witness an ugly increase in antisemitism in America.
WH aide shares the below for speaking order. The event is not livestreamed so I'll send over notable quotes and an otter link after the event.
Shelley's Greenspan opens remarks
Keisha Lance Bottoms
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff
Ambassador Susan Rice
Ambassador Lipstadt
Sending Emhoff quotes quickly here.
Emhoff -- "There's an epidemics of hate facing our country. Let me be clear, words matter. People are no longer saying the quiet parts out loud. They are literally screaming them."
"One of the reasons I became a lawyer -- to stand up for others."
"It's who we are. It's our identity. Its my identity. I'm in pain right now. Our community is in pain. It hurts me to see what we're going through right now. We cannot normalize this. There's no both sideisms on this one. All of us just be against antisemitism."
"Since day one, President Biden and my wife, vice President Kamala Harris have increased funding, have appointed leaders who focus on" fighting antisemitism.
"President Biden, Vice President Harris have met holocaust survivors. I've kept in touch with the survivors. I've shared messages of hope and strength. For me today, this is not the end of the conversation, it's just the beginning of the conversation.
Said he's going to continue to fighting speak out.
"I will not remain silent. I am proud to be Jewish. I'm proud to live openly as a Jew. I am not afraid. I refuse to be afraid."
Please check quotes against transcript.
Pool was ushered out around 12:29 after Amb Lipstadt spoke.
They ignored a shouted question about what concrete actions they wanted to see out of this.
Here is the otter link for those that have asked for it: 