Mr. President, distinguished guests:
I am very glad that it was possible for you to join us here today. Mr. President, we have witnessed the signing of a mutual defense treaty between our two great countries. The signing of this treaty symbolizes the close ties that bind the people of the Philippines and the people of the United States.
Our community of interest was put to the bitter test when our two peoples stood shoulder to shoulder on the battlefield, a few short years ago, to resist aggression. In that struggle our countries went together through the agony of temporary defeat, and together rose to the heights of victory. In defeat and victory we were not divided. We showed to all the world that aggressors can defeat free men only temporarily, and divide them never, so long as the fire of freedom bums in their hearts.
In peace as well as in war our countries have worked together. The half century of peaceful and fruitful cooperation between the Philippines and the United States is proof that both our countries are guided by the same ideals and striving for the same objectives. We have demonstrated that two peoples, however different they may be in background and experience, can work together for their common welfare if they have the same belief in democracy and the same faith in freedom.
The treaty that we are signing here today, therefore, rests on firm foundations. It gives formal expression to something that already exists--to the firm relationship of brotherhood that binds our countries together.
We have already expressed in other agreements our common interest in matters of defense and in economic matters. We have shown our common devotion to the cause of peace in our support of the Charter of the United Nations. Our soldiers are fighting side by side today in Korea just as they fought at Bataan and Corregidor--and for the same purpose--to check aggression and defend the rights of free peoples.
This treaty, therefore, is a natural development springing from the long association of our countries and our common sacrifices for freedom. It is a strong step toward security and peace in the Pacific. It demonstrates to all nations that we intend to continue our common course and to work together in the future, as we have in the past, for peace for all mankind.
Mr. President, the people of the United States are happy to join with the people of the Philippines in this mutual expression of our united will to go forward in the cause of peace and freedom. And I pledge to you, Mr. President, the same pledge which you made to the United States: We shall always be your friend.