Mr. President, Senora Plaza, ladies and gentlemen:
I can't tell you how very much I appreciate the kind remarks which you have just made. Your visit here has been most helpful to the cause of understanding democracy in the Western Hemisphere, and in all the world for that matter.
The Vice President reported to me, sir, that you had made the best speech that the Congress has listened to in many a day--and I made them an address last January!
We are most happy that you are here. We hope you have had a pleasant visit. We know that you have created a better understanding between the Government of the United States and the Government of Ecuador, if that needed to be done.
Our ambition and interest is world peace. And that, I know, is your ambition and interest.
I am extremely sorry that Mrs. Truman and my daughter have not been here to meet Senora Plaza and your lovely daughters. Margaret is in Paris. Mrs. Truman had to be in Independence with her mother who is not very well--she is 89 years old--and her daughter has to be with her as much as possible.
I hope, Mr. President, that you will have a most pleasant visit all over these United States. I know you will have a cordial welcome wherever you go. They can't do anything else but give you a cordial welcome, because they are interested--all the citizens of this country--in the welfare of the whole hemisphere, and I am sure the whole world. It is a pleasure to me to be your host and the representative of the 150 million citizens of the United States of America.
I hope that the time will come when it will be possible for me--whether I am President or not--to visit that wonderful city of Quito. I studied that book carefully and sincerely when you gave it to me, and it made me want to be in Quito all the more. I have always wanted to go there, because it is one of the most wonderful capitals of the world, from a historical standpoint and from its situation--the only capital in the world that is right under the equator. It has a very high elevation. And it has a wonderful people. And in the book which you gave me, it has marvelous architecture.
I wonder if you would join me in a toast to His Excellency, the President of Ecuador, and his wonderful First Lady, Senora Plaza.