My friends:
We are exceedingly lucky tonight in having a guest who is the President of one of our great friends in South America, the President of the Republic of Ecuador.
This is a situation which I don't think will happen again in a generation: The President of Ecuador was born in New York City. He was educated in Maryland, and at the University of California, and the Georgetown School of Foreign Service. He speaks much better American English than I do. He tells me that he studied English because English has no grammar and you can say what you please and anybody can understand what you are saying. I agree with him on that.
He comes from a most remarkable country, one in which I have always been interested, and one which I hope to see before I have to pass out of this world of tears. It has a historical background that is most remarkable. You read of the great empire that was in Ecuador, in Peru, and Bolivia, when Pizarro landed on the west coast of South America--a kindly, lovable people, who had a government that was in the interest of the people.

And that is what this President is working for in Ecuador, just the same as we are working for the same thing here in the United States.
Just recently, one of the most remarkable adventures happened since Leif Ericson came to Vinland in the year 900, and it started at Guayaquil, with the complete cooperation of the Government of Ecuador, and landed in the Pacific islands after a 4,000 mile trip in a raft made of balsa logs from Ecuador. I hope that all of you will take time to read that book called "Kon-Tiki." It is almost out of this world--almost unbelievable; but with the help of the Government of the Republic of Ecuador, these six boys built this raft and made the trip.
Now, Ecuador was one of our greatest friends in World War II. The President assures me that Ecuador will continue to be our friend. And we appreciate that most highly, for we want every Republic south of us to be friends to us.
We have neighbors on the north, and we have neighbors on the south. Those neighbors are not afraid of us. They are friendly to us. They know that we have no designs on their sovereignty or on their resources.
I fear very much that that is not the case with Romania or Bulgaria or Hungary or Czechoslovakia or Poland. The free countries of Western Europe do not feel towards their powerful neighbor as our neighbors feel towards us--and that is one of the happiest things in the history of the world.
The President of Ecuador also tells me that he spells protocol with a k, and that he doesn't give a damn about it. That is another thing on which we completely agree.
Mr. President, it certainly is a pleasure to have you here as our guest. I hope you will enjoy your visit. You need no introduction to America. You know it as well as I do. You speak our language better than I do.
My friends, to His Excellency, the President of Ecuador.