UNDER the Selective Service Act of 1948 additional thousands of our young men will soon be assembled in camps for military training. I am most anxious that the Government take all practical steps to safeguard the religious, moral, educational, and recreational welfare of the personnel of the armed services. As that subject was strongly emphasized by the President's Advisory Commission on Universal Training in its report submitted on May 29, 1947, I convened a special session of the members of that Commission at the White House on August 3, 1948.
The Commission has amplified its original recommendations in the light of the new legislation and the recent experience of the armed services--particularly the great strides made in connection with the Experimental Training Unit at Fort Knox, Ky. The Commission has submitted the attached report. I have approved its recommendations and have directed the Secretary of Defense to carry out those recommendations which can be put into practice by the armed services.
As the Commission emphasizes, it must not be taken for granted that social responsibility for the religious, moral, educational, and recreational welfare of servicemen rests solely on the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. I share the Commission's conviction that the spiritual and moral health of the Armed Forces is a vital clement in our national security. Together with a universal understanding of the principles of citizenship and American democracy, it constitutes the bedrock on which security and the success of military preparedness depend.
Much has already been done in this field by the armed services themselves and by individuals, groups of individuals, and communities throughout the country. An outstanding example is the Civilian Committee on Welfare and Recreation, appointed by the Secretary of Defense and headed by Dr. Lindsley F. Kimball. Other examples are the information and education programs of the armed services, the civilian advisory committees now functioning in many cities, the character guidance councils functioning within the Army, the many groups in and around Louisville, Ky., whose enthusiastic assistance contributed so greatly to the success of the Fort Knox experiment, and so on.
In order to further the work in this field, and in order to implement the Compton commission's recommendations, I am taking steps to create an overall Civilian Advisory Commission on Religious and Moral Welfare and Character Guidance in the Armed Forces. This commission, utilizing the already established activities operating in this field to the maximum possible extent, will coordinate the activities of the armed services and local communities.
Local communities will be invited to begin plans now for resumption of social welfare and religious activities for the benefit of the Armed Forces in their vicinity during duty hours. By such timely provision it is hoped that preparation will be well advanced when the new training centers begin to function in the near future.
It is my firm hope that by these means we will achieve the best possible training for young men, and at the same time can, through cooperation between communities and the armed services, contribute to a strong, united people.