President Tubman, my friends:
I think it would be difficult to conceive of a social occasion in which could be symbolized more of improbable romance and sheer grandeur than we have in this room this evening.
In this House have been entertained proud representatives of proud nations--individuals who, with only an occasional bow to unexplainable twists in the family tree, can go all the way back to the Plantagenets and the Yorks and indeed to Charlemagne.
In 1865 a Negro in Alabama, lately freed from bondage, learned or knew of the rather young nation of Liberia in western Africa. And he left the United States to go there. Some years later, in the early 1870's a young girl from Georgia, apparently going with her parents--although this point I have not checked--also went to Liberia.
Tonight--some 90 years later than that first departure from our country-we meet here to greet, to entertain, and to pay our salute to the grandson of that man--the son of that little girl. If Horatio Alger or G. A. Henty, or indeed Shakespeare could do better than that in writing drama--the drama of real life--into a story, I have yet to find where they did it.
I feel that we meet also with a very deep affection not only for the individual whom we honor, but for the country that he represents and heads. There has been indeed a very close association between America and Liberia. And it is transcendent of mere sentiment. Present with us this evening are the heads of two of America's great industrial corporations. Each has significant--indeed very important--business arrangements and investments in this country of Liberia. Its association with us has, therefore, not been entirely a one-sided arrangement, even in the let us say "sordid" avenues of trade. We as a country have profited because of the great resources of this country, now of two million people-a people whose constitution is written largely in the pattern of our own, for whom--because of their origin, or part of their origin, because of the parenthood of their President and because of our close business connections--we have every kind of intimate association.
Consequently, we are indeed happy and proud that President Tubman has come over here to visit us, to express something of his own nation's readiness to live in friendship with us, to promote that friendship, to learn more of us--although indeed he has been here often enough now that he probably knows us pretty well. But it is the kind of thing that is certainly most welcome to us, one that we respect, one that we welcome from every standpoint.
And for all those reasons, I am sure that everyone here will, with real enthusiasm, rise to join me in a Toast to President Tubman of Liberia.