Mr. President, Mrs. Rhee, my friends:
I am sure there is no one at this table who does not feel, Mr. President, a feeling of distinction in your visit to this country, and your presence at this table. I think it is not difficult to discover the reasons for this sense of pride and distinction, and I hope I will not be considered guilty of filibustering--(laughter)--if I asked you for a moment to go back with me to a lecture I heard in my staff college days.
The lecturer was pointing out that the principal characteristic of life is change. And since he was talking about war, he talked about the changing factors that the fighting man had to consider in his calculations as to war. He pointed out that there are constant changes in the means of transportation, in the weapons to be used, in methods of supply--everything that we do; and that the rules that sometimes obtain among so-called civilized nations, they change.
And then he pointed out that there is one factor that is completely unpredictable, completely unreliable and untrustworthy, and yet never changes--only one--and that is human nature.
In support of his thesis, he pointed out that there is no history so old, no mythology so venerable, that it does not glorify the qualities of courage, of stamina, of reliability, of self-sacrifice, and does not treat with contempt all of the opposites, of intolerance, evil and selfishness.
So I think that in our feeling of pride in the Korean people, and the presence here of their Chief Representative, we are merely responding to an age-old instinct of man, to venerate those qualities that we call ennobling, that we believe are somewhat Godlike in their quality. And we have seen the Korean people through tribulation, through troubles, through enslavement, under brutal attack, respond gallantly and with courage.
It has been a great source of pride to Americans that, with her other allies of the Western World, we could join with Korea in seeing that that country should not be overrun by the invading hordes from the north.
And to the courage of that people, to its prosperity, to its future happiness, I think we may drink a Toast by doing so in the name of their Representative here present--President Rhee.
Ladies and gentlemen, President Rhee.