Your Excellency, Madame Bayar, my friends:
A very wise teacher that I greatly admired once observed to me that life is made up of friendships, friendships of various kinds, it is true, and in each case the qualities appropriate to the relationship that exists between the peoples or the groups.
In the world today, there is a free world--and its opponent is a world that is ruled by dictatorial processes behind the Iron Curtain.
The free world is bound together by friendships. The world behind the Iron Curtain is bound together by force, or the threat of force.
If these friendships are strong, then the free world will have unity. And we well know that in unity is strength, as in disunity is weakness and destruction.
The United States has sought friends, and will continue to seek friends, in this world; and it will measure friendships in those qualities that we call the ennobling virtues of man: his courage, his capacity for self-sacrifice, his readiness to stick by his friend until the end--courage, stamina, gallantry.
It is in these terms and these qualities that we so value our friendship with Turkey. We have found her--we have proved her, on the fields of Korea, for our sons are buried together, where numbers of them fought shoulder to shoulder--we have found them to be a nation of courage, of gallantry, of stamina.
To a friendship of this kind, one that has been forged and maintained in common recognition of these values, there are always two others: confidence and faith.
This evening, as I stand here, I say to you, with no shadow of doubt in my mind, that if the free world can be bound together in its entirety by the kind of friendship that binds America and Turkey, we have no more reason to fear the people behind the Iron Curtain than we have to fear ourselves as we sit here at this gorgeous board. [Applause]
And so, President Bayar, I am sure that those of my countrymen that are gathered this evening would want me to express to you something more than the polite courtesy that is due to the Head of a State on a visit to this Nation's Capital. They would want me to try to say that we value you and your visit as symbolic of a friendship that exists between our two countries. We value your visit because you bring to us something deeper than anything else in this world: true friendship.
And so, sir, with your permission, we raise our glasses to you, to Madame Bayar, and to Turkey.