[Released April 29, 1953. Dated April 28, 1953]

- To All Executive Departments and Administrative Agencies:

I am in receipt of a communication from the Chief Justice of the United States, in his capacity as Chairman of the Judicial Conference of the United States, concerning unnecessary delay, expense and volume of records in some adjudicatory and rule-making proceedings in the Executive Departments and Administrative Agencies. I attach a copy of that letter.

The suggestion there transmitted has the endorsement of the Attorney General. It affords opportunity for a public service of benefit to both citizens and Government. Accordingly, I am happy to call a conference of representatives of the departments and agencies, and of the judiciary and the bar, for the purpose of studying the problems thus described.

It is not contemplated that the conference will attempt to impose rules or procedures upon the departments, the agencies, or litigants. The purpose is to exchange information, experience and suggestions and so to evolve by cooperative effort principles which may be applied and steps which may be taken severally by the departments and agencies toward the end that the administrative process may be improved to the benefit of all.

I request the Attorney General to cause a list to be prepared of those departments and administrative agencies which have these functions, and to transmit to each of those listed a copy of this call. I also request him to designate, in addition to a delegate, a representative of his Department to act as Secretary of the conference.

I request each department and agency receiving this call from the Attorney General to designate a representative to meet with other such representatives as delegates in a conference for the purposes I have designated. I request that in designating representatives for these purposes care be taken to name persons who will undertake to devote to the work the considerable time which probably will be required.

With the agreement of the Chief Justice, I have invited Circuit Judge E. Barrett Prettyman of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, Judge Morris A. Soper of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, Baltimore, and Associate Judge Walter M. Bastian of the District Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, to participate in the conference, and have requested Judge Prettyman to act as Chairman.

I am requesting J. Earl Cox, Jay D. Bond, and William F. Scharnikow, all of Washington, D.C., who are federal trial examiners of experience, to attend and participate as members of the conference.

I am also inviting the following lawyers, experienced in the field of administrative law, to attend and participate as members of the conference:

Hon. John A. Danaher, Washington, D.C.
Richard S. Doyle, Esq., Washington, D.C.
Edmund L. Jones, Esq., Washington, D.C.
H. Cecil Kilpatrick, Esq., Washington, D.C.
Wilbur R. Lester, Esq., Washington, D.C.
Breck P. McAllister, Esq., New York, N.Y.
George M. Morris, Esq., Washington, D.C.
Prof. Charles B. Nutting, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Garnet L. Patterson, Esq., Akron, Ohio
John R. Turney, Esq., Washington, D.C.
J. Albert Woll, Esq., Washington, D.C.
Joseph W. Wyatt, Esq., Washington, D.C.

The secretary of the conference will announce the time and place for the initial meeting of the conference. Thereafter, the conference will organize and fix its program and procedure. After the program which seems initially possible has been completed, provisions may be made by the conference for further meetings from time to time. Should a member of the conference be unable to continue in attendance, the vacancy may be filled by the authority which originally designated the retiring member.

I shall be happy to receive from time to time reports from the conference as to its work.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER