Your Majesty the King, and Your Majesty the Queen, distinguished guests of two nations:
This house is honored this evening in the privilege of entertaining the heads of a state to which all Western civilization will be forever indebted.
Now this evening I shall not weary you with reciting those things which every schoolboy and every schoolgirl knows about the great achievements of Greece in science and art and philosophy. In all those things they have helped to make our Nation's and other Western Nations' civilization what it is.
Rather, I should like to talk for just a second about modern Greece. In this time, when all the world is divided by virtue of a struggle between those who believe in the essential dignity of man as a creature created in the image of his God, and those who contend that man is nothing but a pawn, a creature of the state, and has no reason for existence except as he can glorify that temporal power of the state, Greece ranks high as a champion on the side of human dignity and freedom.
As World War II started, Greece asked no favor except the opportunity to stand for those rights in which it believed, and it gave to the world an example of battle--although temporarily a losing one--a battle that thrilled the hearts of all free men and free women everywhere.
Because of that example, because of the privilege that has been mine and Mrs. Eisenhower's in knowing these two, the heads of the Greek state, the Government of the United States this evening is requesting a privilege of His Majesty the King, to accept from us an honor--the highest decoration that in time of peace our Government can confer upon a citizen of another country.
And with your indulgence, I shall read the Citation:
"The President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of Congress July 20, 1942 has awarded the Legion of Merit, Degree of Chief Commander to Paul I, the King of the Hellenes, for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services.
"Paul I, King of the Hellenes, has made a personal contribution of the greatest importance to the warm friendship between his people and the people of the United States. His devotion to the ideals which are shared by Greece and the United States has been reflected in the resolute manner in which he has led his people in the defense of those ideals against great physical odds. His interest in and support of unity of the free nations have been a magnificent example to his people who have willingly assumed the burdens of those who must guard freedom." Signed by the President.
Your Majesty, as I hand this to you, I am going to ask the company to rise and with me drink a Toast to Your Majesty the King and Your Majesty the Queen of Greece.