[Released September 18, 1953. Dated August 22, 1953]
- My dear Mayor Reuter:
Thank you very much for your kind letter of August 10. I also am most gratified by the success which the cooperation of the Berlin authorities, the Federal Republic and the United States Government has achieved in bringing urgently needed food as tangible evidence of our friendship to the unfortunate people of Soviet occupied Germany. I am impressed with the overwhelming response and with the courage displayed in the face of the many obstacles which the communist authorities have put in the way of these people. It is clear to me that the people of Soviet occupied Germany understand that their welfare deeply concerns the free world which, as you point out, is determined to help them in every way possible.
The American people have not lost sight of the serious difficulties with which the people of West Berlin must cope so long as they are separated from their fellow Germans in the East and West, and cannot enjoy free communication and unimpeded access to supplies of raw materials and markets for their production. While great progress has been made in raising the level of economic activity and employment in West Berlin we all realize that much remains to be done. The present investment and work relief programs in Berlin were, I am informed, carefully developed in the light of the needs of Berlin and the ability of the Berlin authorities, business and labor, to assist in the creation of additional jobs in existing or new enterprises.
I have no doubt that the Berlin authorities can improve present programs in consultation with the Bonn authorities and the Office of the United States High Commissioner. If proposals can be devised which would give promise of a further substantial increase in employment in Berlin, the United States Government would be prepared to explore with the Federal Republic what further steps the two governments might find it possible to take to achieve this objective.
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER