Mr. President, Mrs. O'Kelly, and My Friends:

It is a delightful privilege that I have this evening to welcome the President of Ireland to this country, to this capital city, to this house. I think only an Irishman could possibly have the language, the terminology, to describe the close feeling, the feeling of affection that America has for Ireland.

Now, my name, wouldn't it sound funny if I tried to say O'Eisenhower? Nevertheless, I think I sum up the feeling of an Irishman in America when he tries to say to you: Welcome--welcome--to a people that are so very dear and close to us.

It is not, I think, just because there are so many Irish in America. And I don't think it's because they have had such a big part in helping to win the wars in which we have been so unfortunate to indulge. And I don't think it's particularly just because they like a fight! But there is something almost romantic even in their names. Whether it's O'Shaughnessey or whether it's O'Kelly, there's something, a sort of a feeling that is quite individual. I think the American senses this, and whether the Irishman is what we used to call a "gandy dancer" on the railroad or whether he is occupying the highest places in Government or in business or in the professions, there is still a rather fine feeling when you go up to him and say, "How do you do, I am glad to see you."

I have learned during the course of this day with you, sir, that all of these qualities that the Irish have, to inspire affection, admiration, and liking, you have in full measure.

And I am quite certain that in saying that, I mean only that you are representative of this lovely island from which you come, and the people that have sent you here as our guest.

So as I pay again a tribute to this wonderful feeling of warm friendship that has never been broken between Ireland and ourselves--and incidentally, Mr. President, I have always wondered how you people can call yourselves neutral, you are in every fight there is--and maybe that's another reason we like you--but in any event, as I try to express that feeling of warm friendship that we know exists between your people and ours, and which we know shall never be broken, I can do it in no better terms than merely to request you to stand up and drink with me to Ireland, its President and his charming lady. Mr. President!