President de Gaulle, President of the Municipal Council--Parisians--and Citizens of France:
When the heart is full, the tongue is very likely to stumble. Should I try to express to you today the true feelings, the true sentiments that now inspire me, I should be completely unable to speak at all. I can say only that over the years, this city, this country, has become like it has for almost every American, something that is very dear, very real, and truly a part of the kind of world in which we want to live.
We have been allies for many years, from the days of Lafayette, back in the late seventeen hundreds. To this very moment America cherishes the friendship, the loyal support, the loyal cooperative efforts that have always been hers whenever she needed them from France.
To be more personal, let me speak for a moment about your great President, General de Gaulle. I met him in London more than seventeen years ago. Our acquaintanceship and friendship grew and developed in Algiers, and again we were in Britain; and then I met him again in France, as he began the process of reconstruction in this great country. And since that time I have kept in touch with him.
Now it is my great privilege to work with him again in the great purposes that he has just explained, those of finding a path to the peace and the security for all the world, so that you, your children, your grandchildren, may like all of those in other parts of the world, in all the continents, live in confidence, can develop in themselves all their God-given qualities and become truly people without fear. People that love liberty will never let it slip away from them, either by neglect or under threat, and will march down the road to the future with all of the faith in their God and in themselves that will make everybody--all of us--a happy people.
And so, all I can say again to this throng, to all the people who lined the Champs Elysee, who were along the streets and the boulevards as I came down here, I have one small French phrase that I think expresses my feelings: Je vous aimes tous.