THE REPORT on the Rural Development Program initiated to aid small and low-income farmers shows major progress.
Every one of the main recommendations made in April 1955 by Secretary Benson has been acted upon. These include expanded technical aid for families on small farms, new job opportunities, training in non-agricultural skills, research, and community action in rural areas.
The federal government has had the cooperation of state leaders in working toward each of these vital goals. Experience gained this year will encourage an expanded effort in 1957-58.
Among the points in this report which are worthy of special comment are these:
First, the program is being managed by state, county and local committees--not from Washington. This is as it should be.
Second, I am most encouraged by the active interest and leadership of various groups--farm, school, church, service clubs, business, industry and others. The development programs are those which the state and local participants want.
Third, there is major emphasis on youth--education, vocational training, health and character.
Fourth, the program is hitting at the points of greatest need. The 24 states and more than 50 pilot counties already in the program are located in areas where the most small farms and the most rural families with low incomes are located.
In my message to Congress of January 11, 1954, I pointed out that the chief beneficiaries of our price-support policies have been the 2 million larger, highly-mechanized farming units which produce about 85 percent of our agricultural output.
On the remaining farms, production is so limited that the farmer derives little benefit from price supports.
Initial success of this program is a challenge to all of us in this year ahead. We have a solid foundation to build upon. The Rural Development Program is the first truly broad-scale attack on the problems of low-income farmers. I am happy to see so many groups and agencies working together as a single team. That is the way to get results.