I WANT to express our great appreciation to President Sukarno and President Keita for--as I said yesterday--coming halfway around the world to visit us on behalf of the seven hundred million people gathered together in Belgrade.
We are delighted to see them, because we recognize the vital interest which the nations assembled at Belgrade, and indeed all nations, including the Soviet Union and the United States, have in maintaining peace in the world.
And, therefore, though the trip is far, I am sure that the two Presidents both feel that any contribution that they can make to the relaxation of tensions is well worth the longest journey.
In addition, we are glad to see them because of the countries they represent. They represent countries which have become newly independent in the years since the end of the Second World War. We recognize the desire and the necessity of the people of those countries to build their own societies, to build a life of freedom and associate themselves with their own tasks and their own future.
I do want them both to know that that is the basic objective of the policy of this country towards Mall and Indonesia. Thirdly, we are proud to have them because of their own leadership, because they played leading parts in the liberation of their own two countries, and because they represent the living aspirations of their people in their own personalities.
We are very glad to have here also the Ambassadors from some of the countries that were represented at Belgrade--the Ambassador of Yugoslavia, the Ambassador of the UAR--the Charge d'Affaires of India, and the others who were associated in the conference that was held a week ago.
So as you leave us this afternoon, President Sukarno--and President Keita, as you leave us tomorrow--to take your journeys home, we hope that you will carry with you a message: That this country wants peace, and that it will go to any effort, that those of us who hold official responsibility in our Nation will undertake any journey and meet with any group that promises to advance peace and the aspirations, the legitimate aspirations, of people everywhere.
We are also very proud to have the son and daughter of the President of Indonesia with us--he has let them study in the United States, to teach us as well as to learn. And also the young lady--she represents the ladies of the unaligned world today.
So will you join me in drinking a toast to the two Presidents.