The great mission of our time is to defend and strengthen freedom, and to build a dependable and just peace.
The effect of Senator Kennedy's statements on Quemoy and Matsu and Formosa has been to present to the enemies of freedom in the world a picture of an America divided on this great issue. We must be united because it is certain that the Communists respect only strength, firmness, and unity on the part of the free world and on the part of America above all.
The error Senator Kennedy makes is to advocate a change in America's policy of firmness in spite of the fact it is a policy which has worked time and again these past 8 years. He publicly advocates the drawing of a line behind where it is today - of surrendering at the point of a gun, free territory to the Communists. The identical approach was overwhelmingly rejected 5 years ago by the majority of both the Democrats and the Republicans in the U.S. Senate.
If Senator Kennedy persists in this position - one that I am convinced is naive and, in fact, dangerously irresponsible - the result can only be to encourage the Chinese Communists to step up their attacks. Every day that he persists in this frightening foolishness - every day that he continues to picture an uncertain and divided America - he increases the risk of war.
Therefore, I call upon him again to surrender his own position rather than America's position - to concede his error rather than concede bits of freedom to tyranny - to surrender to the overwhelming view of the American people in favor of firmness instead of surrendering free territory, free people, and freedom from war.
Let us restore, beyond all doubt, the wise course America has followed so successfully these past 8 years.
Therefore, I call upon him to surrender his position rather than surrender free world territory.
If he does so, he will be joining with the great majority of Americans of whatever political faith who support President Eisenhower's wise position on this all-important matter.