Creation of an executive board of the nationwide Educators for Kennedy Committee was announced today by Senator John F. Kennedy.
The committee will be headed by Dr. Earl J. McGrath of New York City, former U.S. Commissioner of Education.

  Distinguished educators throughout the country are impressed with Senator Kennedy's accomplishments and his educational philosophy--

said Mr. McGrath.

  He has taken a firm position on Federal aid to education and other projects most American educators feel are vital to the growth and educational development of this country.
We admire his achievements and his program, and we are proud to support him.
In addition to Dr. McGrath, others named to the Executive Committee of Educators for Kennedy are:
A. Nelson Addleman, past president, Pennsylvania State Education Association, Turtle Creek, Pa.
Lynn M. Bartlett, superrintendent of public instruction, Lansing, Mich.
Dr. Karl W. Bigelow, professor of higher education, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Dr. Carl Brablec, superintendent of schools, Roseville, Mich.
Frank Brouillet, classroom teacher, Puyallup, Wash.
Dr. Brendon Brown, professor of law, Loyola University, New Orleans, La.
Dr. Howard A. Dawson, executive secretary, Department of Rural Education, National Education Association, Washington, D.C.
Oscar A. Ehrhardt, member, board of education, St. Louis, Mo.
Dr. George Haney, supeyintendent of schools, Butte, Mont.
George D. Hann, superintendent of schools, Ardmore Okla.
Charles L. Hosford, vice principal, David-Douglas High School, Portland, Oreg.
Dr. Herbert C. Hunsaker, past president, Association of University Evening Colleges; past president, State Adult Education Association, Lafayette, Ind.
Dr. Ray W. Johnson, superintendent of schools, Riverside County, Calif.
Thomas Johnson, past president, Maryland State Teachers Association; supervisor of elementary schools, Prince Georges County, Md.
Frederick G. Kilgour, librarian, Yale Medical Library, New Haven, Conn.
Dr. Polykarp Kusch, Nobel Prize winner, Columbia University, Dupin Hall, New York, N.Y.
Dr. Gordon L. Lippitt, director, Center for Behavioral Sciences, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
Frank W. McCallister, director, Labor Education Division, Roosevelt University, Chicago, Ill.
Carl J. Megel, president, American Federation of Teachers, Chicago, Ill.
Dr. Deborah Cannon Partridge, associate professor of education, Queens College, Flushing, N.Y.
Dr. James B. Perky, director of vocational education, office of State superintendent of public instruction, Oklahoma City, Okla.
George T. Pratt, president, Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf, Inc., Northampton, Mass.
Dr. Noble Puffer, Cook County superintendent of schools, Chicago, Ill.
Donald W. Rasmussen, 1959 Teacher of the Year nominee, pastpresident, South Dakota Education Association, Vermilion, S. Dak.
Mrs. Rose Schwab, president, National Council of Administrative Women in Education New York, N.Y.
Donald M. Sharpe, professor of education and director of laboratory experiences on secondary level, Indiana State Teachers College, Terre Haute, Ind.
Dr. William Simmons, superintendent of Romulus Township School District, Romulus, Mich.
Dr. Hugh Speer, dean, School of Education, Kansas City College, Kansas City, Mo.
Mrs. Mary Jo Tregilgas, principal, General Rosecrans School, Compton Calif.
Dr. George Wilkins, State superintendent of public instruction, Springfield, Ill.
Dr. Howard Wilson, dean, School of Education, UCLA, Los Angeles, Calif.
Dr. Stephen Wright, president, Fisk University, Nashville, Tenn.