Senator John F. Kennedy announced today the formation of a National Committee of Business and Professional Men and Women for Kennedy and Johnson under the honorary chairmanship of Luther H. Hodges, Governor of North Carolina. Hodges, during the past 4 years, has demonstrated the value of cooperation between business and Government by Securing more than $1 billion of new investment in manufacturing activities for his State.
Previous to his election to State office Governor Hodges served as a vice president of Marshall Field & Co.
Named as cochairmen of the national group were Charles Englehard, Jr. chairman of Englehard Industries, Inc., of Newark, N.J.; Philip M. Klutznick, chairman of the board, American Community Builders, Park Forest, Ill.; Richard Reynolds, Jr., president and director of Reynolds Metals Co., Richmond, Va.; J. Howard Marshall, executive vice president and director, Signal Oil & Gas Co., of Los Angeles; and Edwin A. Locke, Jr., president and director of Union Tank Car Co., Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Englehard is chairman of Rand Mines, Ltd., and a director of other companies of precious metals. He is a director of the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation and of the Foreign Policy Association. Philip Klutznick is also vice president and treasurer of the Omaha Corp. and in 1957 served as an alternate delegate to the U.N. He is an honorary international president of B'nai B'rith. Mr. Reynolds is a past member and past president of the Aluminum Association and a member of the National Mineral Advisory Council of the Department of Interior. J. Howard Marshall is an attorney and a director of the Independent Petroleum Association. He served as consultant to the Secretary of the Interior. Mr. Locke is a member of the World Trade Advisory Committee of the U.S. Department of Commerce and is national chairman of the Middle East Institute.
Other members of the national committee are:

Ivan Allen, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., vice chairman of the board of directors, Ivan Allen Co., and a director of Southern Airways; Lloyd Bentsen, Jr., of Houston, Tex., a former Member of Congress and president of the Lincoln Liberty Life Insurance Co.; August A. Busch, Jr., of St. Louis, Mo., chairman and president of Anheuser Busch, Inc.; James Bruce of Cedarhurst, Md., director of American Airlines, Inc.; Laird Bell of Winnetka, Ill., a member of the law firm of Bell, Boyd, Marshall & Lloyd; Robert S. Benjamin of Kings Point, N.Y., chairman of the board, United Artists Corp.; Larry Blackmon of Mineral Wells, Tex., land developer in west Texas and past president of the Texas Home Builders Association; John F. Connelly of Philadelphia, Pa., who is chairman and president of Crown Cork & Seal Co.
John M. Cheatham of Griffin, Ga., president and director of Dundee Mills; Leo T. Crowley of Madison, Wis., president, treasurer, and director of General Paper & Supply Co. as well as chairman of the board for the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul Railway; Earl B. Dickerson of Chicago, Ill., who is president and general manager of the Supreme Liberty Life Insurance Co.; Frank M. Folsom of New York City, chairman of the executive committee, Radio Corp. of America and director of the General Cable Corp.; John D. Goodloe of Atlanta, Ga., secretary and general counsel of the Coca Cola Co.; Ben W. Heineman of Chicago, Ill., chairman of the Chicago & Northwestern Railway Co.; Jerold C. Hoffberger of Baltimore, Md., chairman of the National Brewing Co.
Mrs. Tobe Coller Davis of New York City, fashion consultant and president of Tobe & Associates; Bailey K. Howard of Chicago, Ill., director and president of Field Enterprises Educational Corp.; Neil C. Hurley, Jr., of River Forest, Ill., president of Thor Power Tool Co.; Claude A. Jessup of Charlottesville, Va., chairman of the board, National Trailways Bus System; Murray D. Lincoln, Columbus, Ohio, president and director, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., and general chairman of the Peoples Broadcasting Corp.; Charles Luckman of Los Angeles, Calif., an architect with Charles Luckman Associates and director of Pepsodent Co., and the Flying Tiger Line, Inc.; C. Virgil Martin of Chicago, Ill., president and director of Carson Pine Scott & Co.; W. Gordon McCabe, Jr., of Greenville, S.C., vice president and director of the J. P. Stevens & Co.; John I. Snyder, Jr., of New York City, chairman and president of U.S. Industries, Inc., and director of Loews, Inc.; Ross D. Siragusa of Chicago, Ill., chairman and president of the Admiral Corp.
Benjamin H. Swig of San Francisco, Calif., chairman of the Fairmont Hotel Co.; John H. Wheeler of Durham, N.C., president of the Mechanics & Farmers Bank; O. Paul Decker of Chicago, Ill., president and director of the National Boulevard Bank and director of B/G Foods; William Preston Lane, Jr., of Hagerstown, Md., director and member of the executive committee for the Fairchild Engine & Airplane Corp.; Charles Murphy, Jr., of Chicago, Ill., Naess & Murphy, Architects; Jerrold Loebl of Chicago, Ill., with the architectural firm of Loebl, Schlossman & Bennett.
Headquarters for this newly formed committee will be located at 333 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Ill.