Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen:
Four years ago the land of our guest regained its independence. As head of the new republic the President asked his legislative branch to impose an independence tax upon the people. The purpose was not to raise revenue but to impress upon the people that independence was not a gift. As sometimes happens even in Washington, the legislative branch was not too receptive to the suggestion.
But we honor the President for all he has done to make it clear that independence means taking up new responsibilities, not laying them down.
The American people have taken up many responsibilities these days around the world. Those burdens are not light. The way we have chosen is neither short nor smooth. But we entertain no thought of casting off hose responsibilities and leaving them at the roadside of history.
We in America have only one policy, only one purpose, and one pursuit, and that is victory for freedom. When that victory for freedom is won, it will be a victory for responsibility among nations, young and old, small and large.
We in the United States take great encouragement from the model of moderate and mature leadership that our guest and other leaders like him offer the newly independent nations.
We welcome the close relationship between us. We are especially grateful that our countries can be associated in the great efforts of space exploration for the good of all mankind.
The President and I met all too briefly 3 years ago in Dakar. Today that friendship has deepened and grown.
We discovered that we were both born in cattle country of parents with meager means. In the 1930's we were both teachers. We both entered public service in the legislative branch.
There is one difference: the President is not up for election until next year.
The road of opportunity under freedom and democracy is a road that all men may walk on all sides of the world. It is a road that we intend to keep open and to keep it wide open for all men whatever their race, their region, their faith, or their flag.
So, this is a happy privilege to be gathered here this evening under the sky and the stars with many of our friends from throughout the Nation and some of the leaders in all forms of public life in this country.
And to our friends who have come to pay honor to this leader, I should now like to ask you to join with me in a toast to the President of the Malagasy Republic--to the friendship between our peoples, to the victory for freedom toward which we all work together--Mr. President.