Mr. President:
Your country and my country are both young, but friendship between our peoples is old.
Even before we gained our independence, Americans were engaged in peaceful commerce with your people. We are proud to welcome you here today in friendship and in independence.
Independence is the great trust of this century. Never before have so many men had in their own hands the privilege and the responsibility of determining their own destiny.
We of the United States rejoice in this. We rejoice especially, Mr. President, when nations such as yours and leaders such as you emphasize the responsibility of independence as well as the privilege of independence.
In our 188 years of independence we have learned that liberty is not license; freedom is not a favor; security is not to be had without sacrifice.
In your nation's 4 years of regained independence, you have impressed these same lessons upon those that you lead. Your statesmanship speaks eloquently as an example of the new leaders of the new nations on both continents between which your country is an ancient bridge. In Africa and in Asia the will for independence, freedom, and peace runs strong. We welcome and we applaud the courage of men on every continent who stand against the efforts of any to turn that tide or stem its flow.
Mr. President, the United States does not seek to dominate any friend and does not seek to destroy any foe. But where men stand up for their own freedom, we will stand with them. Where men strive to make life better for their children, we will strive with them. Where men are ready to seek sincerely after peace, we welcome them to join with us genuinely in its pursuit.
In the 1860's our two countries solemnly declared that peace and friendship should exist between them forever. In these 1960's, 100 years later, it gives me great pleasure to reaffirm that declaration.
It is my high privilege this morning to welcome you here, to welcome you as the leader of free and independent friends of these free and independent people of the United States for whom I speak.