Mr. President and Mrs. Orlich:
It is both a great privilege and a great personal 'pleasure to welcome you to our country and to this Capital City.
Only a year ago President Kennedy brought to you and your countrymen the good will and the good wishes which we of the United States feel so strongly for Costa Rica.
Today your visit symbolizes anew the growing strength of the friendly and cordial bonds between our countries. More than 100 years ago, representatives of your country and mine signed a treaty in which it was declared there shall be perpetual amity between the United States and the Republic of Costa Rica. We can be proud in both our lands that the promise of those prophetic words has been fulfilled through all the years since 1851.
We have worked together in the past with a spirit of mutual understanding and cooperation. We work together in that same spirit today, as good neighbors should, and servicemen of the United States are today working side by side with Costa Ricans to ease the threat of floods in your country. But our common vision and our common hopes bring us together in greater enterprises for the betterment of the common future of all Americas.
The work of the Alliance for Progress which President Kennedy began goes forward with growing momentum among all the good neighbors of this hemisphere. In your country, Mr. President, and through the joint efforts of the alliance, new homes and new schools are being built, textbooks are being produced, loans are being extended to farmers.
The 12 million inhabitants of the five countries of Central America are benefiting from the common market that your countries are building. We are deeply gratified by the promise that this undertaking so clearly offers.
As President Kennedy said when he visited your capital last year, the unique inter-American system of international cooperation is now demonstrating in this hemisphere that economic prosperity is the handmaiden of political liberty.
The work all of us are in together, all free Americans in this new world, is a great enterprise that is filled with difficulty and challenge, but it is an enterprise befitting the revolutionary spirit of our peoples and their quest for independence and their search for social justice.
We of the United States, Mr. President, are steadfast in our conviction and in our determination that we shall succeed in achieving the goals of our great Alliance for Progress.
I am proud, Mr. President, to welcome you to the United States this morning as a fellow American, as a fellow partner in our hemispheric alliance and as a fellow worker in the cause of peace and all mankind.