MRS. JOHNSON and I are honored tonight to welcome to this house as good friends of America two good friends of ours--the Prime Minister and Mrs. Krag of Denmark.
In 1963 at the suggestion of President Kennedy, Mrs. Johnson, our daughter Lynda, and I visited Scandinavia. Our memorable mission was concluded with a never-to-be-forgotten weekend in Copenhagen. Our guests tonight were our gracious hosts then. We shall always be grateful for the reception that we received from Their Majesties and The Royal Family, and from all of the wonderful people that we met on the streets of Copenhagen and the Tivoli Gardens.
We made one happy discovery about the Krags. As some of you know, some small attention has been given in this country to the fact that the Johnson family all have the same initials in our monogram, but the Krags have really outdone us. They both observe the same birthday.
Denmark is an old country, but her people and her leadership live in the future and not in the past. The world cherishes Denmark's great storyteller, Hans Christian Andersen, but the world will never forget Denmark's great scientist--Niels Bohr.
The Flag of Denmark is five centuries older than the Stars and Stripes of the United States. Yet, while the ages of our country are greatly different, the aspirations of our people have always been much the same--a respect for human dignity, dedication to social progress, and an untiring quest for universal peace.
Many sons of Denmark have enriched America's life with such vision. I think particularly of the writer and reformer, Jacob Riis--long ago he was; he may truly be called a pioneer in the war on poverty which America is carrying on today.
On the world stage, Denmark and the United States stand together as allies in NATO, and we work together in common dedication to the cause of peace. Americans are appreciative of Denmark's responsible role in supporting the United Nations and in sending her sons to help keep the peace in Cyprus, in the Congo, in the Gaza Strip.
We are also deeply grateful for Denmark's constructive support of the vision of an outward-looking Atlantic partnership.
When we were in Denmark I was greatly impressed with the visits with Their Majesties, with Prime Minister and Mrs. Krag, and with all of the leaders of Danish industry in both public and private life.
I was also greatly impressed with our own Ambassador to Denmark at that time, Ambassador and Mrs. William Blair. That is why I have called upon them to take up a new post of duty in another land toward which Americans have the warmest and deepest affection--the Republic of the Philippines.
We in Washington are grateful, Mr. Prime Minister, that Denmark honors us here with Count and Countess Knuth-Winterfeldt as your ambassadorial representatives.
We have sent to Copenhagen as ambassador one of America's most outstanding women, Mrs. Katharine White.
Our country is honored, and we in this house are privileged, to have as our guests this outstanding couple representing modern Scandinavia as well as modern Europe.
So it gives me a great deal of pride and pleasure and joy this evening here in this house that belongs to all Americans, in which I hope all of the people of the world will feel comfortable, to ask those of you, our good friends who have come here, to join me in a toast to His Majesty, the King of Denmark--and to the continuing friendship of our lands and our people--to the King of Denmark.