MR. PRESIDENT, of all the pleasures of life the first is a visit to Ireland. But if that is not possible, the second is to have Ireland visit us.
So we are happy, Mr. President, tonight that you have come back to the country of your birth, home to the people who claim you as one of their own.
You and I have a great deal in common, Mr. President, not the least of which is that a lot of Irishmen vote for us--and occasionally vote against us.
Furthermore, in our work, we are both surrounded by Irishmen. I have heard it said that there are more Irishmen in the White House than people.
I know that I have become an Irishman by osmosis.
Mr. President, this is your seventh trip to our country, and I cannot help but compare it to your first visit in 1919 when you were smuggled ashore to outwit those who would thwart your efforts to win support for Irish liberation. Since then, Mr. President, you have become a symbol of the contributions our two countries have made to each other. In a real sense, Mr. President, we gave you to Ireland in partial payment for the thousands of Irish who came to America to enrich our lives.
Foremost among those was John Fitzgerald Kennedy whose name will live forever as the symbol of the ties that bind our countries together. His tragic and untimely death left all our hearts deeply wounded, but we are all better men for the life he lived while on this earth.
Few men, Mr. President, have had the satisfaction that you have had. Not only did you play a leading role in the birth of your nation but you have continued to exert great influence long after Ireland became a significant force in world affairs.
In the United Nations, in the Congo, and in Cyprus, the voice of Ireland is the symbol of sanity and sage counsel and self-sacrifice, and this is the story of de Valera--and that is the story of Ireland.
I want to pay a very special tribute tonight to your Minister of External Affairs, Mr. Aiken, for his very active role in the United Nations; to Ambassador fay with whom I want to cultivate very close relationships; and to Mrs. de Valera, the first Lady of Ireland, a woman of enormous talent and keen spirit and, finally, to you, Mr. President, as a small expression of our affection and our appreciation not only for your having come to our country but for your having brought Speaker McCormack and his wife to have dinner with us for the first time.
So, as a small expression of our appreciation and as a token of our profound respect for your life and your labors, I should like to ask those of you who have joined us this evening, my colleagues and my friends, to join me in raising our glasses in a toast to the President of Ireland--a great Irishman and a very great friend.