Your Majesty, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
I think I should begin tonight with a word of explanation. Presidents of the United States have many responsibilities, but responsibility for Washington's weather is not one of them.
But, Your Majesty, whatever the weather outside, it has not dampened the friendship and the accord of our most cordial exchanges earlier in the day and again tonight.
As we expected it would be, this day has been in every respect another memorable milestone in the relations between Jordan and the United States.
The American people are quite honored, and Mrs. Johnson and I are proudly privileged to have Your Majesty as a most welcome guest in this country and in this House.
His Majesty and I have found that we have some things in common. As some of you know, His Majesty in his desire to be closer to his people has been known to disguise himself and drive a taxicab through the streets of his capital. I have not as yet found a successful disguise for myself--and the streets of our national capital are sometimes crowded with cabs--but I am trying to spend the weekends lately with the people of my country who are touring Washington.
This facet of His Majesty's fresh and imaginative leadership symbolizes the character and the personality which has won for him so much respect in our land and has won for him respect throughout the world. He represents a new generation of Arab leadership. In Jordan, he and his people have brought that ancient land of the camel, the date, and the palm to the threshold of a bright and a hopeful and a modern future. His own great inspiration and guidance have meant much to this effort and have helped to work major changes for the benefit of all of his more than 1,700,000 people.
When His Majesty returns to his homeland, he will carry with him the best wishes of all Americans for a long and a most peaceful reign, marked by blessings of a good and fruitful life for all the people of Jordan.
So, ladies and gentlemen, our most honored guests who do us the honor of coming here this evening, I ask you now to join me in raising your glass to this young leader of this proud and ancient land, His Majesty.