Mr. Prime Minister, Lady Douglas-Home, Mr. foreign Secretary, Lady Butler, Mr. Ambassador, Lady Ormsby Gore:
I should like to ask those friends of ours here this evening to rise and drink a toast with me to Her Majesty, the Queen.
Mr. Prime Minister and Lady Douglas-Home, I know that I speak for all in telling you how delighted and how honored we are by your visit here in America. These have been two very enjoyable and very useful days in which both of us have been able to do a tremendous amount of very important work together.
It is not that we suffer from a lack of regular communication, because your distinguished Ambassador and his gracious Lady Ormsby Gore are in constant communication with us. They were a favorite couple of the late President Kennedy and they are beloved by the people of America. We consider ourselves most fortunate to have them with us.
As our predecessors discovered before us, Mr. Prime Minister, there is no substitute, however, for personal meetings such as those that we have been having the last few hours and which I am sure that American Presidents and British Prime Ministers will continue to have as often as they find it possible.
You might well ask how it was that the two of us hit it off so well together, one a Scots Highlander and the other a Texas rancher, but you must remember that Sir Alec and I are really countrymen, although he prefers Black Angus and I prefer Herefords, and although his countryside gets too much rain, while mine gets too little.
But there is a very special bond that connects men who have walked and worked together in the open spaces. Moreover, we are men who share the same traditions and the same ideals. It was Macaulay who said that the history of England is the history of progress. We in this country, who learned from Britain the rules of common law and the disciplines of decency, have much to admire in British progress, because your progress and our progress have been companions in history.
The kind of government we have today here in America was born on the fields of Runnymede and our system of fair play was lifted right out of the classic debates in the House of Commons. Our concepts of human rights and freedoms come from many sources, but their taproots were nourished in English soil. And so it is now our two countries together face the future undismayed and unafraid. While we work to secure our defenses, we work also to a practical disarmament; while we are prepared for war, we yearn and strive for peace. We are just two nations separate and apart, but we are allies to the end, and we are partners, and we are friends.
If I may interpolate, Mr. Prime Minister, I am sure I speak for everyone in this room when I say, may there always be a Britain and may we always love you as we do.
So on behalf of the United States of America, I should like to ask my companions this evening to join me in a toast in honor of our distinguished visitor, the Prime Minister of Great Britain and his gracious Lady, and moreover the very great people of the world that they represent.
Mr. Prime Minister.