Dear Mr. Attorney General:
On January 23, 1963, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section 206 of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947 (29 U.S.C. 176), I issued Executive Order No. 11078 creating a Board of Inquiry to inquire into issues involved in labor disputes between the Boeing Company and Rohr Corporation and certain of their employees represented by the following labor organizations:

International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO;

District Lodge No. 751, International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO;

District Lodge No. 70, International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO;

Local Lodge No. 2061, International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO;

Local Lodge No. 2086, International Association of Machinists, AFL-CIO;

United Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of

America, AFL-CIO;

Local Union No. 1069, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement

Workers of America, AFL-CIO;

International Union of United Weldors (Independent);

Local No. 12, International Union of United Weldors
On January 25, 1963, I received the Board's written report in this matter. I understand you have a copy of that report.
These unresolved labor disputes threaten a strike affecting a substantial part of the ballistics missile, space vehicle and military aircraft industry, engaged in trade, commerce, and transportation among the several states, which strike, if permitted to occur or continue, will imperil the national safety.
Therefore, in order to remove a peril to the national safety and to secure a resumption of trade, commerce and transportation among the several states, I direct you, pursuant to the Provisions of Section 208 of the Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, to petition in the name of the United States any District Court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties to enjoin such strike and for such other relief as may in your judgment be necessary or appropriate.

Sincerely,
JOHN F. KENNEDY
[The Honorable Robert F. Kennedy, The Attorney General]