Gentlemen:
I am sure you all join me in welcoming to this country the guest of honor and the members of his government. I don't think that any head of state of a new country has faced the difficulties and the challenges which have pressed upon him with so much force in the last few months.
The difficulties of our revolutionary experience, and the experiences of every other people coming into independence since the end of World War II, pale in comparison to the problems which the Congo has faced and which press upon the Prime Minister and his supporters.
What makes him especially welcome is the courage and the fortitude, the persistence and the judgment with which he has met these challenges--which would have overwhelmed a lesser people, a lesser country, a lesser man, a lesser government.
Prime Minister, we welcome you here for many reasons. The success of the Congo. is tied up, really, we believe, with the success of the United Nations. If you fail, and the Congo should fail, it would be a serious blow for the United Nations, upon which this country has placed so many hopes for the last 17 years. And because of the intimate association between the United Nations and your government, we are particularly glad that you are here to address them.
We are also glad to welcome you because of your own qualities, because you have set a course for your nation, of being independent, of being African, of being free, of being unaligned, of governing under most adverse conditions, through parliamentary democracy, at a time when some other new nations have been forced by events to move away from democratic processes.
We welcome you because of your own extraordinary record--rising because of your own efforts to a position of preeminence, where you have won the support of people, both within and without your country--and because of your own personal qualities.
We are vitally interested in the success of the Congo because we believe the success of your country is essential to the success of a free Africa. We believe strongly in the unity of free states, able to choose their own destiny and able to decide their own fate.
So, Prime Minister, we welcome you here. Many years ago, one of our distinguished Presidents--you examined his portrait this morning in President Lincoln's bedroom-Andrew Jackson, said, "Our Federal Union, it must be preserved."
We recognize your strong conviction that the same policy should follow for your own country, that the Congo must be preserved. And as a faithful member of the United Nations, we support--through the United Nations--the implementation of that policy.
So we welcome you here, and I hope that all of you will join me in saluting the people of the Congo, the country, and its distinguished Prime Minister.