THE TASK FORCE on Employee-Management Relations in the Federal Service which I appointed last June has submitted a report recommending a constructive, forward looking program of employee-management relations within the Federal establishment keyed to current needs. The Task Force has done an excellent job in a difficult and complicated field.
While preserving the public interest as the paramount consideration in the administration of employee-management relations in the Federal Service and retaining appropriate management responsibilities, the Task Force report recognizes the right of Federal employees and employee organizations to participate in developing improved personnel policies and working conditions. In recommending that employee organizations be consulted and that under specified conditions agreements with such organizations may be entered into, the Task Force has urged a proper course of action that should result in increased governmental efficiency as well as improved relations with Federal employees.
The report clearly recognizes that Federal employees do not have the right to strike, that both the union shop and the closed shop are inappropriate to the Federal Government, that where salaries and other conditions of employment are fixed by the Congress these matters are not subject to negotiation, and that all agreements must be consistent with merit system principles.

Additional recommendations of the Task Force call for regularizing arbitration procedures in handling individual employee grievances; extending to non-veterans appeal rights already held by veterans; requesting legislation to authorize voluntary withholding of employee organization dues by the Federal Government, at the expense of the organization; and appointment by the Secretary of Labor, when necessary, of panels of expert arbitrators to make advisory recommendations as to what constitutes appropriate units for negotiating purposes and to supervise elections by employees.
The Task Force reached its conclusions after holding public hearings in cities throughout the country, and after consulting the heads of Federal departments and agencies. Its recommendations will provide an effective system for developing improved employee-management relations. As an employer of more than 2,300,000 civilian employees, the Federal Government has long had an obligation to undertake the reappraisal which has now been made so well by the Task Force.
I have directed that an executive order giving effect to the Task Force recommendations be prepared for issuance by the end of the year.