Ladies and gentlemen:
I know that you all join me in expressing our very warm welcome to our distinguished visitors, the Prime Minister and his wife.
It is almost "sad" that there are so few issues which are causing intense controversy between Norway and the United States--an unaccustomed feeling as I welcomed the Prime Minister here. We searched all morning in an attempt to find something that would cause "alarm" in both capitals. But, Prime Minister, we are very proud to have you here.
You have been preceded, as you know, by many thousands of your countrymen. The Prime Minister was generous enough to bring to me a model of a ship which contained the first group of Norwegian immigrants. It was intended to hold 25, and I think 45 came--a baby was born on the way. They were arrested when they arrived, because they were overcrowded, and John Quincy Adams, from one of our great States, was instrumental as President in exercising his executive influence and having them freed.
As you know, they did not stay in the East but went to the Middle West and the West. A good many of the things which we now take for granted in the field of social legislation-unemployment insurance, social security, the cooperative movement--a good many of these very basic parts of our national life today originated in the influence of the Scandinavian community, of which the Norwegians were most active, coming out as they did, a good many of them, from Wisconsin and the Dakotas and all the rest.
So this has been a most progressive and effective force in our national life in many different ways. In addition, the Norwegian people and government themselves have been closely associated with the United States--in the War, in NATO, in OECD; and now the Norwegian Government is moving closer and playing a full and most effective and valuable role in the development of the great European community.
Norway lives on the precipice of the ocean. The Prime Minister pointed out this morning that only about 4 percent of their land is arable, so they have always looked to the sea. That sea, and their part in it, is one of the most exciting heritage's of all of us who are at heart romantic.
So we are very glad to have the Prime Minister and his wife here, and the members of their party. We value very much our association with your Ambassador and his wife. We value our friendship with your country. You are, Prime Minister, among the warmest of friends, and I hope that all of you will join in drinking to His Majesty the King.