Mr. President, most distinguished guests:
I once heard about a man who, while strolling through a cemetery, saw a tombstone bearing this inscription: "Here lies a Lawyer--and an Honest Man." Naturally, he was surprised to learn that the grave held only one man--not two.

Well, I am more surprised today than he was.
Here among us in the White House sits the architect of a nation's constitution; an educator; a statesman; a historian--and a poet. And he is only one man--not five! If I were to compare you, Mr. President, with some figure from our history, I would have to call the names of Thomas Jefferson and Walt Whitman--and perhaps many others.
So from now on, when I am taken to task about my relations with intellectuals, I hope my learned critics will be convinced by this reply: "But what about President Senghor?"
Mr. President, our two nations are different in many ways.
America's independence is old--and yours is new.
But today I am thinking of the things that we have in common.
Your nation and mine are embarked on historic efforts to achieve social justice and economic progress for all of the citizens of our lands.
Your nation, like mine, knows that its future depends on the hope which education brings.
You and I--who both began as teachers-deeply share that conviction.
And we agree about the growing importance to the world of Africa's young nations.
In the United States, we admire the role that you and your people are playing in building the future of your continent. That is why we have welcomed the opportunity to work with you in building secondary and technical schools; and that is why we are proud to send Peace Corps volunteers to teach and learn in Senegal and throughout Africa.
I was so pleased to hear you make the observations you did this morning about the effectiveness of our Peace Corps.
We have seen the growing willingness among African nations to work together for progress. I believe the trend is clear: Africa's people are setting their course toward cooperation.
It is fitting that Leopold Senghor, who is a symbol of this cooperative spirit, is both a political leader as well as a leader of thought.
Of him, a biographer has written: "If this were not a topsy-turvy world, it would be governed by poets--for they are the most lucid of men .... Their glance is clear and ever new. They see and foresee."
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join me in a toast to the people of Senegal and to their great leader, Leopold Senghor.