Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Erhard, ladies and gentlemen:
When Swift was informed that Handel was at his door, he said, "Ahh, a German and a genius. Admit him."
We greet you tonight, Mr. Chancellor, with equal vigor and enthusiasm. Not only because you are a German and a genius, but because you have also brought with you, for the first time, your devoted companion and helpmate, Mrs. Erhard, whom we are delighted to welcome this evening.
It was a native of your country who said that, "He only earns his freedom and existence who daily conquers them anew."
We in this country believe that. We believe that the game is won or lost every day. We believe that the pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness is never ended. We believe that it is as new as the rising sun and as urgent to all of us as the next breath of fresh air.

Because the people of your country are unafraid of each day's test, they have shown the world, now for more than 20 years, what courage and fortitude can mean in the life of a nation that is determined to build anew.
You have given the world not only an example of resolution, you have given us the gifts of culture and science and spirit which have enhanced the lives of so many.
Your contribution to the Metropolitan Opera is something that I can never forget, Mr. Chancellor--because Lady Bird won't let me.
And in Vietnam tonight are your doctors and your teachers who have come there from Germany, and your medicine and your economic assistance--all devoted to spelling hope to aid a struggling, freedom-seeking people.
You seem to understand how deep is our concern for South Vietnam and how earnestly our thoughts these days are turned in that direction.

But you also know that America's efforts in Southeast Asia can and will never diminish our concern for the security of Europe and the Atlantic, because, Mr. Chancellor, more than one ocean commands our interest.
Mr. Chancellor, no one need doubt the American commitment to Europe's future. We keep our commitments in Vietnam and we keep them every place that we have them.
We stand with our allies in NATO, firmly dedicated to a common defense, because we believe in firmness and in unity lie the best hopes of peace in the world.
That is why the security of West Berlin, that island of courage, that city of commitment, is so very important to all Americans. I recall vividly how the spirit of its people inspired me during my most delightful visit there in 1961 at a very critical moment in our national life.
So we share your determination that the people of all Germany shall be peacefully united in freedom with all of their fellow citizens--and we do believe that it will truly come to pass.
I also share your hope, Mr. Chancellor, expressed to me earlier today, that I can come to Europe again. Your invitation to come to Germany next spring would give me a good opportunity for another meeting with our friends and allies. I want to assure you, sir, that I will try my very best to accept your invitation, if my other responsibilities will permit.
I have welcomed you on many occasions, Mr. Chancellor, as a statesman of the modern world, but always most of all as our friend.
Tonight, I welcome you again as a great leader, as a champion of progress for your people, as hope for mankind, and as one of our close and trusted friends in the world.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to join me in a toast to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and to the whole German people, whose security and whose freedom are our very own.