Mr. President and Mrs. Marcos : We welcome you.
Mr. President, you come to this house and to this Nation as the captain of a great country and you bring more than your credentials as a chief of state. For your people and mine have shared suffering and victory. So we are not only friends; we are brothers.
You have also brought us rain--and that endears you to us.

More than anyone here today, Mr. President, you know the price of freedom. You were wounded five times in freedom's cause; you survived the Bataan Death March, and for 2 years you led a force of guerrillas with great and legendary courage. You wear two Silver Stars. And you carry the Distinguished Service Cross--one of the highest awards that a grateful United States can give to its heroes.
Our people take pride in the independence and the progress of the Philippines. Your nation of islands is an exhibit for history's claim that the future belongs to those who champion freedom and who labor unselfishly for it.
I think it is particularly fitting this morning that we observe that the new billion dollar Asian Development Bank will soon have its headquarters in Manila, because your nation symbolizes the promise of this new venture. So from the ruin of war, you have built an economy which gives your people great hope, and you are an example to all nations that economic and social progress can be achieved without abandoning individual freedom.
We know that what your nation has, it has earned.

What you yearn for, you work for.
And what you work for--you are ready to defend.
And for that, Mr. President, we are very grateful.
Last Sunday, on your 49th birthday, more than 2,000 Philippine troops began their journey to Vietnam. In the field they will take their place beside Australians, Koreans, New Zealanders, Americans, and South Vietnamese.
I think I can understand your own feelings about this.
As commanders in chief, you and I know that it is never easy to commit men to battle. But we know that if a leader is to pass along to the next generation the treasure of liberty, he must do what must be done.
During the next 2 days we will talk of a day when the Pacific will be truly what its name implies: a place of peace. We will look to the time when the nations who live by the side of that great ocean need no longer fear their neighbors; to a time when plenty, not poverty, is every man's reward for his labor.

Two decades ago the Filipino and the American were joined in the cause and blood.
Today we are joined in our hopes for a peaceful and a prosperous world.
You yourself, Mr. President, have set as a goal for your nation "the attainment of a higher level of life for our people." That goal is our goal, too.
So this morning it gives me great pride and pleasure, Mr. President, to see you and Mrs. Marcos here in our house, the first house of this land.
And I want you to know that the welcome comes from all the people of this land who respect the work and sacrifice of your great nation.

Thank you for being here.