Ladies and gentlemen:
We are delighted to have had at our Cabinet meeting this morning a group of Governors headed by Governor Grant Sawyer of Nevada, Governor Scranton of Pennsylvania, Governor Volpe of Massachusetts, Governor Smylie of Idaho, who heard the Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense give us a review of highlights of foreign and military policy.
We also had contributions from Mr. Gaud in connection with AID programs throughout the world.

In addition, we received the report on the White House conference, the President's civil rights conference held here in June, the recommendations of the 29-man committee chaired by Mr. Heineman and Mr. Philip Randolph.
After receiving that report, I appointed a committee from the Cabinet to review it, evaluate it, report back to me within 30 days upon their conclusions and recommendations, the further action the administration should take.
At that meeting at the end of 30 days, we will ask the full 29-man committee, headed by Mr. Heineman and Mr. Randolph, to be present to hear the Government's response and reaction.
I am asking the Secretaries to make themselves available to you at the conclusion of our meeting and present to you all the information they gave the Cabinet, except for the classified data that was given.
I want to thank Mr. Heineman, who has given very freely of his time and provided extremely intelligent leadership in this very important work.
I want to express my appreciation to Mr. Randolph, who has spent 50 years of his life working in the cause of civil rights for this most constructive document. Detailed recommendations will be forthcoming within a 30-day period.
I have asked Secretary Rusk and Secretary McNamara and Mr. Gaud to present to the press a very brief review of what they gave the Cabinet. In case the press desires to make any inquiries or to pursue their presentations in depth, I am sure they will be delighted--with the time they spend with congressional committees, I am sure they will be glad to give you equal time.

In the meantime, I ask to be excused.