Mr. Prime Minister and my friends:
A house twice visited by a good friend is a house twice blessed. So, Mr. Prime Minister, we welcome you back here to the White House and we are very grateful that you were able to arrange your very busy schedule so as to return and pay us a visit.
While you were away, I spoke to my countrymen, and I hope to yours also, about the pacific area that we share with many of our Asian friends.
I said the other night, and I should like to reemphasize it now, that I believe that the pacific is the great testing ground of man's yearning for independence, order, and for a peaceful and productive life.
Mr. Prime Minister, if we can win that test in the Pacific, we may very well have won the fruits of peace for all of our fellow men in the world--we would hope, perhaps, for all time. But if we lose it in the Pacific, we will have lost achievement and hope, perhaps, for all time, too.
But we shall not lose the test, because Americans and Australians and Vietnamese, New Zealanders and Koreans and our other allies shall prove in the Pacific that aggression cannot succeed on any continent, in any country, against any people in the world in the 20th century.
The Pacific is not an ocean. It is not a region. It is a crucible in which the free, proud, and peaceful world of tomorrow is today molding and taking its shape.
So, as we meet here this afternoon, the winds of hope are blowing fresh and strong off the Pacific and they are blowing throughout free Asia. We are partners in stirring that excitement.
Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, we are partners in creating the billion dollar Asian Development Bank. We are partners in developing the Mekong River Delta, in denying those who would destroy the promise of stability and growth, and in encouraging those who would make that promise a reality.
And that is the great and urgent work that, after your extremely important meetings in London and here, you will return to Australia to advance, Mr. Prime Minister.
So today you leave us not only as our trusted partner and our cherished friend, but as a man who has left much behind of the bravery and the nobility of the Australian people. A new generation of Americans are living the lessons that their fathers learned.
I see in front of me Captain Stevens, a teacher at West Point. It was 25 years ago that I got out of bed in Townsville one morning about 3 o'clock with Colonel Stevens, with whom I had roomed. He died that day over Lae and Salamaua. He left a little 6-year-old boy, who is now this teacher at West Point, to carry on for him.
But we learned that quarter of a century ago, Mr. Prime Minister, that one can never ask for finer comrades on the battlefield, or more willing colleagues in the works of peace than our Pacific brothers, our Australian allies.
And so it is our prayer today that God grant that your young men and ours will soon return from conflict to enjoy the peace that we seek so fervently together.
And until they do return, we will stand shoulder to shoulder supporting them all the way.
So gentlemen, I should like to ask you to toast that bright hope and its living symbol, the very able, courageous, and distinguished Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia, Mr. Holt.