Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Holt:
We greet you this morning as friend and partner. It is a very genuine pleasure to welcome you and Mrs. Holt, and the distinguished members of your party, to our country.

My personal ties to your country are as deep as a man's can be. During the war I found among you open-hearted friendship when I was far from home. Now, once again, our two nations are fighting side by side in the defense of freedom.
The first thing that I read every morning are the battle reports from Vietnam. I want you to know that I follow the exploits of 4,500 Australians fighting there with the same interest and concern as those of our own men. Mr. Prime Minister, I take great pride in their courage and their dedication. I derive great strength from the sacrifices they are making.
You in Australia know that in Vietnam we are meeting a challenge which just must be met. It must be met because it is always dangerous to let aggression succeed. It must be met because our SEATO commitments require us to defend the people of South Vietnam from external attack.
It must be met because the security of Australia and the United States of America is directly at stake in preserving the independence and the freedom of the nations of Southeast Asia.
We also know that behind the struggle against aggression in Vietnam a vital, free Asia is rapidly emerging. Shielded by the courage of the Vietnamese and their allies, many Asian countries are driving forward with real success in their economic and social development.
We all know of the remarkable growth of Australia and Japan in recent years. But last year the growth rate in South Korea was 8 percent; in Taiwan it was 7 percent; in Malaysia it was 5 1/2 percent; in Thailand it was 6 percent. Growth in Iran has been averaging better than 6 percent a year.
Pakistan is rapidly recovering from the setback caused by the conflict last year.
Last week I received word from India which moved me greatly. The monsoons have begun. It looks as though the rainfall this year will be ample and the harvest will be good. With adequate rainfall, the courageous measures of the Indian Government, and the support of the world community, I hope and I expect that India will surge forward in the year ahead.
Indonesia is turning the corner into the most promising phase of its postwar history.

Meanwhile, there is rising in Asia a new spirit of regional association and regional self-confidence. It was that spirit to which I responded and which I tried to encourage in the talk I gave in Baltimore in April 1965.
Now the dream of an Asian Development Bank is a reality, binding up the peoples from Teheran to Seoul in a great common enterprise. Work goes forward to develop the Mekong Valley, despite the conflict close by.
I know that Australia has, for many years, assumed a major responsibility for the security and the development of its region, through the Colombo Plan, the Mekong Committee, SEATO, and bilateral contributions to developing regions of the area. Our own security is heightened because we are joined with you in ANZUS.
But we feel a new sense of fellowship and common destiny is emerging in Asia. We followed with great interest the recent meeting in Seoul of the Asian and Pacific Council, in which your Government participated.
Nations that were long isolated from each other are now beginning to know each other and to find new common ground. Old antagonisms are giving way to a new awareness that there are great possibilities in working together, great challenges to be met, and great jobs to be done.
Above all, Asia is proving once again that stability and power are not to be found in tyranny and aggressive wars against a neighbor.
Stability and power come from free men and free nations working together on behalf of the people. We both know that should we fail in Vietnam these new possibilities in free Asia would be endangered or destroyed.
Mr. Prime Minister, as you come this morning to this house on your long-awaited visit, I wish to tell you--and, through you, to tell your wonderful people--that we shall not fail. We shall persist. We shall succeed.
The good, brave people of South Vietnam shall be given their chance to forge their own destiny in peace.
The free peoples of Asia shall be given their chance to shape the destiny of their own region.
These are your goals in Asia, Mr. Prime Minister, and they are also the goals of the United States of America.

Welcome.