Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen:
It has been said that a poem is like a picture--worth a thousand words of prose. So today I want to welcome you, Mr. Prime Minister, with just a few lines from a grand poem. It begins like this:

"I love a sunburnt country,

A land of sweeping plains;

Of ragged mountain ranges;

Of droughts and flooding rains.

"I love her far horizons,

I love her jeweled sea,

Her beauty and her terror,

The wide brown land for me."

The poem ends:

"Though earth holds many splendors,

Wherever I may die,

I know to that brown country

My homing thoughts will fly."
Any American who read those words would think of our own broad land, the United States. No man from Texas could help think of the sunburnt country, the wide, brown land that we call home.
An Australian, Mr. Prime Minister, what would he think of? Surely of his own homeland. For these words were written by an Australian about Australia. But it speaks from the heart to Americans also about America.
Our countries could hardly be farther apart physically, yet we could hardly be closer in spirit, in tradition, in outlook, in friendship. As our able Ambassador, Edward Clark, has said, we are natural partners. We are, both of us, an immigrant people, men and women who crossed wide oceans to form a new world.
We found rugged and largely empty continents. But we poured ourselves into the land. We emerged as great nations.
Our nature is to work hard and to build high. Our nature is to prize the individual as our foremost national treasure. Both of us believe in government as the servant of the people. Ours is a heritage of human rights and of responsibility. Our highest hope is peace in the world.
But when duty summons us, we are there. We have become accustomed, when duty calls, to be there together--as we were in North Africa together, in New Guinea together, at Cebu Island, in Korea, and as we stand today shoulder to shoulder in Vietnam.
Every American is grateful for the truth that so many men of peace have spoken: When a fight comes looking for you, it is good to have Australians standing and fighting by your side.
So today in your capital of Canberra, our ministers are meeting as partners in SEATO. Tomorrow they will be meeting as partners in the ANZUS Treaty. In these, as in most other enterprises that occupy us, we are closely working together. So, pray God, shall it always be.
Mr. Prime Minister, it gives us a great deal of pleasure and happiness to welcome you back to the United States. It is a pleasure to have you come here in the first house of the land to meet with some of our most distinguished leaders in Government, business, and agriculture as the leader of the Australian people and the Australian Government, as a staunch partner in the common cause of peace with justice, and always as our very good, warm, and cherished friend.
We ask you to remember us to one of the great friends of the United States, one of the world's leading statesmen, your predecessor, Prime Minister Menzies. He has thrilled us in this room on many occasions with his eloquence.
A very wise man once said, "A faithful friend is the medicine of life." So, Mr. Prime Minister, we fear no illness.
Gentlemen, I should like for you, my friends, to join me in a toast to the distinguished Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia--Mr. Holt.