Your Majesty:
Your presence here this evening is an occasion we have long anticipated. It is a very welcome and a very vivid reminder of the bonds of friendship which exist between our two countries. These ties were initiated by two of the most illustrious leaders that your country and mine have known--your late, distinguished father King Abdul Aziz ibn Saud, and our President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
Their meeting in 1945 marked a milestone in history. They laid the basis of understanding and cooperation between our two countries. These have endured to this day. They will continue to do so. They are predicated on improving the lot of both of our peoples and securing for them and for all peoples the blessings of peace and prosperity. Though circumstances have changed, I know that both our countries and peoples pursue these same goals today.
Our meeting today gave me a deeper realization that we face many common and similar problems. One, in particular, is very near to my heart.
I come from a part of the United States which bears a great deal of similarity to parts of Your Majesty's country. Water is a problem of overriding concern to parts of the United States just as it is to Saudi Arabia. We know it is written that, "Everything living was created from water." Fortunately, modern technology has come to our aid. It holds out the promise of large supplies of water through desalting.
To make this promise a reality, your country is planning a desalting installation larger than any that now exists anywhere. We, too, are seeking ways to purify water at a price that men can afford. We are very pleased to be cooperating with Your Majesty's Government in this very highly important field to both of our countries.
We, like you, are seeking to improve our education and provide better opportunities for all our young people. The wise use of the great wealth of our subsoil demands our best efforts. We have watched with respect and admiration the progress that Saudi Arabia has made, under Your Majesty's wise guidance, in all of these endeavors.
The roster of those who have joined us in extending our welcome to you this evening, Your Majesty, symbolizes the variety of our common interests as well as the depth and the warmth of our friendship.
I recognize, Your Majesty, that the solutions we find for our problems will not always be the same. Differences in history, customs, traditions, and geography inevitably produce different outlooks. But where such differences are, we can both learn from them and, I trust, benefit from them.
In the past, our common respect for human dignity and abiding faith in spiritual values have been the cornerstone of our relations. They will chart the course of our future relations as well. As a long recognized champion of these basic principles of constructive human conduct, we are very proud and quite privileged to welcome Your Majesty here to the White House tonight.
We hope your stay with us will be a pleasant and profitable one. We know from our discussions today that you will leave with us more than you take away.
So my good friends who have come here this evening from all parts of this Nation, may I ask you now to join me in a standing tribute to His Majesty, King Faisal ibn Abd al-Aziz al-Saud--a great ruler, a wise statesman, and a warm friend of our country.