Mr. President, distinguished honored guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I want to welcome you to Washington this morning on behalf of the United States Government and of the American people.
Our two countries share many ties and many interests. One of the strongest stands before us: your Ambassador and the Dean of our Diplomatic Corps, Dr. Sevilla-Sacasa, who has been untiring in his efforts, constant in his purpose, and always has attempted to serve not only the interests of the people of your country but the people of this entire hemisphere.
It is always good, Mr. President, when the heads of governments can come together. Each of us, each day, constantly faces new challenges. We here in the United States, for example, are now engaged in a great battle to eliminate the last elements of racial discrimination in this society of ours.
Mr. President, we are trying so hard to improve our entire educational system in this country. Because in every society education is the ultimate basis for responsible citizenship, for economic growth, for social progress.
We are determined, Mr. President, to improve the health of our young and of our old. And in the days ahead--this month-we will take some of the most revolutionary steps ever taken since the founding of our Republic in advancing health measures for the benefit of all the people of this country.
We are very much determined to keep our land beautiful in the face of an industrial civilization which threatens the landscape, the air, and the water.
I know that in your country, you too, Mr. President, face similar problems as your people strive to create a modern Nicaragua and as they desire to play their part as citizens of the hemisphere.
I am particularly proud that we could pay respect and honor--not just to you as President, although we are pleased that you could stop here on your visit to this country, but to pay respect and honor to every Nicaraguan citizen. We are especially pleased to observe Nicaragua's loyal collaboration in the Central American Common Market effort.
We know that in the field of education, in the field of health, and in the field of social betterment, no geographical lines divide human beings. Wherever the human heart beats, wherever the head thinks, people everywhere want the same things: better education for their children, better health for their families, better homes to live in.
I congratulate you, Mr. President, along with your Central American neighbors, for the progress that has been made toward a better and a fuller economic integration. We feel this is essential to improve the economic lot of the good people who inhabit this continent with us. Your visit coincides closely with the fifth anniversary of the Common Market endeavor which was so happily marked last week.
Our two countries share common objectives on the world scene as well as in this hemisphere.
And as the leaders of the world scene have come and gone from Washington, there has always been one person who joined with the officials of the United States to pay them respect and understanding--regardless of their political philosophy or from which continent they came. That person was the distinguished Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, our friend Sevilla-Sacasa. So this, too, acknowledges and pays to him a tribute that we think is long overdue.
Mr. President, we look forward to a continuation of the strong effort that is carrying us forward in this hemisphere toward the most desirable objectives and toward goals that we believe are attainable.
Today, I have asked some of the leaders of all groups, factions, and parties of this Government to come here and exchange suggestions and ideas with you as to how we can make a better life for our people.
We are happy that you could come to see us.