Madam Prime Minister:
I have heard--and I do in part believe-that Queen Victoria, speaking in a different age and under different circumstances, once gave the following estimate of two of her prime ministers.
"Mr. Gladstone," said she, "talks to me as if I were a public meeting--but Mr. Disraeli speaks to me as if I were a woman."
Tonight I am very pleased to tell our friends who have assembled here that we have spoken to our gracious visitor not only as a woman with an understanding heart-but also as a leader with a sense of vision-and a builder with a valued view of faith.
India is a vast and varied land. The roots of freedom and justice run deep in the Indian past. Its culture was full and strong centuries before the dawn of the Christian era.
The world has listened to the wisdom of India spoken through the voice of an eloquent leader.
Once, many years ago, he said: "Democracy demands discipline, tolerance, and mutual regard. Freedom demands respect for the freedom of others. In a democracy changes are made by mutual discussion and persuasion and not by violent means."
These were the words of Prime Minister Nehru. This was the belief of Prime Minister Shastri. Their fidelity to freedom's cause created, with Mahatma Gandhi, a new nation--conceived in struggle, grown strong in sacrifice.

And now tonight Prime Minister Gandhi comes to this house and to this table, the custodian of her nation's hope, and the steward of her nation's dreams.
Today we here in the White House talked about the work and the sacrifice that is needed to make those dreams a modern reality. Together we discussed the practical ways that India and the United States can help to build a world where life is hopeful and where life is happier for all our peoples, as well as the peoples of all lands.
Prime Minister Gandhi's goal is to weld the Indian nation into a land where the words of its founding fathers come true and their views of its future become real.
There is much that binds India and the United States together. Both our nations have the deep-felt obligation to the basic dignity of man--and the conviction that people can solve their problems by free choice far better than they can by any arrangement of force. There is in India and there is in this country the strong tradition of freedom that just will never die.
I remember very clearly tonight my visit to India in 1961.
I remember what I saw and what I felt and what I heard throughout that great land. The thousands of students along the roads and in the cities--each of them quite impatient to know and to learn. I saw the teachers and the scholars, the public servants, and the people, searching, yearning, discovering, hoping. And I think of our young people here and what we have done in the last year to achieve a new revolution in education--beyond the wildest dreams of just a decade ago.
Now, how can we bring into closer union the spirit and the courage of these people, and particularly of these two countries?
I have given a good deal of thought to that in the last few months, and tonight I would propose that we mark this historic visit of Prime Minister Gandhi with a lasting endowment for the benefit of inquiring young minds in the Indian nation.
So may we, Madam Prime Minister, with the permission of your Government and the American Congress, launch a new and imaginative venture. We shah call it an Indo-American Foundation. I would propose that this Foundation be established in India, and that it be endowed with $300 million in Indian currency owned by the United States. Other foundations all over the world will cooperate, I am sure, with an enterprise of this kind.
I would suggest that this Foundation be organized as an independent institution-with distinguished citizens of both our countries on its board of directors. I would propose that the new Foundation be given a broad charter to promote progress in all fields of learning--to advance science--to encourage research--to develop new teaching techniques on the farms and in the factories--to stimulate, if you please, new ways to meet old problems.
The journey to our future is over a very long and a very winding road. Every mile will be challenged by doubt. But together, Madam Prime Minister, we must avoid the detours that intrude on our safe journey toward a time when, as your father promised, life will be better for all of our people.
So, ladies and gentlemen, let us honor those who are so welcome here tonight. Let us ask you to join in honoring the Chief of State whose wise and gifted Prime Minister we have enjoyed so much today, and that we welcome so warmly this evening.
I should like to ask those of you who are assembled here to join me now in raising your glass in a toast to the great President of India.