Mr. President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
There is no need to say how very pleased we are, Mr. President, to welcome you to this house this evening. The President of Pakistan comes on a new visit, but he is a very old friend. This is his third journey here as head of a young State already grown to world importance.
Mrs. Johnson and I want to thank you, Mr. President, for honoring us with your distinguished Ambassador Ahmed and his charming wife, whom we enjoy very much.
We are also particularly pleased that we could renew acquaintances with your former Ambassador, your present Foreign Secretary. I observed that perhaps when he was Ambassador and I was Vice President we were doing a little better job with our relations than we are in our new positions. But it just shows you what happens to people when they get promoted!
President Ayub and I have a great deal in common, just as our peoples share many values and many dreams.
President Ayub is a rancher as I am. His home district is a country much like Johnson City, Blanco County, where I live. He also has a special bond with Mrs. Johnson, and for that matter, all lovers of beauty in this land. President Ayub is building a new capital for his country, just as we are trying to rebuild and beautify ours.
With so much to share it is not surprising that President Ayub and I found our talks today fruitful. They will continue in the evening and we hope for more extended sessions tomorrow.
We share the basic values and beliefs: man's fundamental dignity and worth, a love of liberty, a pride of excellence, pursuit of beauty and truth, a vision of a better and a fuller life for all human beings.
I have recalled a courageous and a compassionate appeal made by President Ayub in a broadcast back in 1963. He said then-and I quote: "Hatred and anger fan the fires of hell in human minds. Why not put them out? It is nobler and better for one's own happiness to live on terms of friendliness with others."
And so tonight we share the greatest hunger and the most burning thirst of all. We want so much to find peace in the world. We want so much to bring peace to Asia and peace to all the other countries that are troubled. We want peace not only in our time, but peace for all time.
We want peace. And we shall work every minute, day and night, for peace.
President Ayub visits us as the architect of his country's inspiring struggle for economic emancipation. And nowhere have we observed a better administrative effort. Today Pakistan surges forward in a very great adventure. And Dave Bell will talk to you about it for hours if you will listen to him because we are very thrilled to observe the economic advances and the other results that the leadership of President Ayub and his associates provides and inspires. We all must rededicate our very best efforts to conquering the curses of poverty, hunger, disease, illiteracy: the human and physical problems that, as President Ayub has said, and I quote him again, "cannot be resolved by the magic wand of just freedom alone."
So, Mr. President, with your permission, I am sending a very high level team of medical teachers and scientists shortly to your country of Pakistan. This team will be led by the President's Science Adviser, my own trusted counselor, Dr. Donald Hornig. Its mission will be to work with your own medical authorities in instituting a very broad improvement in medical training, and in working with all of your fine people in the attempt to improve rural health and public health among your fellow countrymen.
This will be a beginning. If our purposes are as one, we can continue and expand the dynamic partnership that we have had in the past. Together we can press the battle against waterlogging and salinity; against devastating cyclones, cholera, heart and eye disease. Together as friends, working shoulder to shoulder, we can improve weather forecasting and improve flood warnings, and multiply housing programs such as the Korangi project that I visited in 1961 when I met my good friend the camel driver. He came to this country and he spread good will from one end of it to the other, and he is remembered most affectionately by all who met him. We can speed in many ways the transition from a subsistence economy to a life of plenty and a life of purpose for every Pakistani.
This has been a stimulating and inspiring day for me. It is always so when I am in your presence.
So tonight, here in this, the first house of our land, I would like to ask those friends of mine whom I have asked to come here from various parts of this country--from California to New York--to raise our glasses to salute the spirit and the success of the Pakistan nation, and the dedicated leadership of the great President of Pakistan, Mohammed Ayub Khan.