Mr. President:
I am happy, on behalf of the people of the United States, to welcome you once more to our shores.
We Americans have admired Pakistan's rapid progress as a nation, and we have had particular respect for you as the leader who has been chiefly responsible for this great progress over the past 7 years.
It is also a very great satisfaction for me, personally, to have you here with us at this time. I have not forgotten the hospitality which my wife and I received during our visit to Pakistan 4 years ago. It seemed to me then, as it does now, that Pakistan and the United States have very much in common. For one thing, each of our countries began as what most people called "an impractical experiment." No one expected us to survive. Yet here we are.
I remember, most gratefully, how much at home I was made to feel on my visit to your country. I also recall my feelings when you addressed the legislature of my home State back in 1961. Mr. President, I don't know whether you felt equally at home on that occasion, but I remember thinking at the time that you could have had a very great future in American politics.
So we do have, I think, much in common. We have also had our differences. Yet I hope that the bonds which unite us are far stronger than any temporary disagreements.
Both of our nations are dedicated to government by, and for, the people.
Both you and we, each in our own way, are trying--trying so hard to provide a fuller life for all of our people. We, in America, admire Pakistan's efforts to this end, and we have sought to work with them.
We also agree, I know, that the ultimate success of all of our efforts really depends upon the restoration of peace and stability, not only in Asia, but throughout the entire world.
I am quite confident that, working together with the millions of others who share these ideals, we will ultimately reach our goal. I am confident, too, that the discussions which we are about to have will bring us-and the world--one step closer to that common objective.
Mr. President, we are delighted to have you here this morning. We hope you will enjoy your stay in our country, and we certainly want you to know that we warmly welcome you as our friend.