The task of government is to serve the public. It has been my deep and continuing concern to assure that each American receives from his Government the fastest, most efficient and most courteous service. As our society grows more complex and our population expands we must explore every path in our quest to provide the best possible service for our individual citizens.
Some months ago I asked Chairman Macy of the Civil Service Commission to survey our existing practices and to suggest ways to improve our efforts. He has reported that progress has been made. But we must continue to forge ahead, for in a real sense we have only begun.
The time for action is now. This is particularly so in view of the new programs recently passed by Congress which reach all of our people.
I am today placing Chairman Macy in charge of a new and concerted government drive aimed at bringing better service to our individual citizens. I am directing him to coordinate the activities of each department and agency and to report to me every 90 days on our progress to improve the quality of service and to make the government more accessible to the people it serves.
To build further on the steps we have already taken, I am requesting:
First, that you assign a top member of your staff to develop within your Department or Agency a program to improve the quality of service to the public. The name of the official you select should be promptly forwarded to Chairman Macy.
Second, that you report to Chairman Macy by December 15, 1965 the steps taken in your Department or Agency to improve the quality of service and your plans for future improvement.
Third, that your agency take full advantage of the new and special training courses developed by the Civil Service Commission to improve standards of service to open up more lines of communication to the public.
I regard this as a vital undertaking. As our programs expand and increase, it is essential that each of our citizens receive prompt, efficient and courteous service and from each of our government employees.
We must have your personal support and leadership to translate the promise of a better and more responsive government into a reality.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON