DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
It is hereby ordered that, in honor to the memory of our late illustrious Chief Magistrate, all officers and others subject to the orders of the Secretary of State wear crape upon the left arm for the period of six months.
W. HUNTER,
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
 
It is hereby ordered that, in honor to the memory of our late illustrious Chief Magistrate, all officers and others subject to the orders of the Secretary of the Treasury wear crape upon the left arm for the period of six months.
H. McCULLOCH,
 .
GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 69.
WAR DEPARTMENT,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
By direction of the President of the United States the War Department will be closed on Wednesday next, the day of the funeral of the late President of the United States.
Labor on that day will be suspended at all military posts and on all public works under the direction of the War Department. The flags at all military posts, stations, forts, and buildings will be kept at half-staff during the day, and at 12 o'clock m. twenty-one minute guns will be fired from all forts and at all military posts and at the Military Academy.
By order of the Secretary of War:
W. A. NICHOLS
Special Order,
APRIL 17, 1865
By order of the President of the United States the Navy Department will be closed on Wednesday next, the day of the funeral solemnities of the late President of the United States. Labor will also be suspended on that day at each of the navy-yards and naval stations and upon all the vessels of the United States. The flags of all vessels and at all the navy yards and stations and marine barracks will be kept at half-mast during the day, and at 12 o'clock m. twenty-one minute guns will be fired by the senior officer of each squadron and the commandants of the navy yards and stations.
GIDEON WELLES,
POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT,
 , 
Business in all the post-offices of the United States will be suspended and the offices closed from 11 a. m. to 3 p.m. on Wednesday, the 19th instant, during the funeral solemnities of Abraham Lincoln, late President of the United States.
W. DENNISON,
Special Order.
POST-OFFICE DEPARTMENT,
 , 
It is hereby ordered that, in honor of the memory of Abraham Lincoln, our lamented Chief Magistrate, the officers and employees of this Department wear crape upon the left arm for the period of six months.
W. DENNISON,
 .
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR,
It is hereby ordered that, in honor of the memory of the late Chief Magistrate of the nation, the officers and employees of this Department wear crape upon the left arm for the period of six months.
J. P. USHER.