Dear Mr. Heath:
It is a pleasure to acknowledge and thank you for your letter of August 6, 1965.
I have been aware, of course, of the existence of the other Presidential Libraries and their contribution to history. It has been a source of satisfaction to know that through these institutions we are making certain that the full record of each presidential administration is being carefully kept for study and use by all those interested in the history of our country.
Your letter has served as a suggestion that it is not too early for me to be giving thought to the planning of a similar institution for this administration. As you know, I am deeply committed to the preservation and safeguarding of our historical and cultural resources and have made an effort to preserve the papers of my own public career since 1937. I am, of course, particularly concerned that the generations that follow us should have the opportunity for detailed analysis of those historical records from which can be derived a full understanding of the momentous years through which we are passing.
Your letter has not only reminded me that it is time to give attention to this matter, but it has set my mind at rest as to how the whole question can best be dealt with. The fine public spirit and magnificent generosity that have prompted the University of Texas to make this unexampled offer of a site and structure on its campus for use as a Presidential Library should earn it the respect of the entire nation. I am pleased that you believe that placing the Library on the University of Texas campus will significantly strengthen and enrich the educational programs in which that great institution is engaged. I would also hope that your action would enhance the opportunity for improving the academic endeavors of all institutions of learning, and provide additional opportunities for scholarly research in public affairs.
It is with heartfelt gratitude, therefore, that I accept your proposal and join with you in this undertaking.
I have referred your proposal and a copy of this reply to Mr. Lawson B. Knott, Jr., Administrator of General Services, who is charged by existing law with establishing and operating Presidential Libraries as a part of our national archives system. Mr. Knott and I will cooperate in working out with you the detailed arrangements necessary to bring to actuality the benefits of this great national education asset which the University of Texas has undertaken to provide.

Sincerely yours,
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
[Honorable W. W. Heath, Chairman, Board of Regents, The University of Texas, Perry Brooks Building, Austin, Texas]