Dear Dr. Ackley:
I want to thank you and your colleagues for the first report of the Committee on the Economic Impact of Defense and Disarmament.
I established this committee at the end of my first month as President. It has devoted itself for a year and a half to studies which affect two of the greatest issues our Nation faces. The first is to provide for national defense in ways that bring no unnecessary hardship to any American community. The second is to keep every road open for rapid progress toward disarmament as soon as others will join with us.
Your report gives a comprehensive account of the extensive efforts which our government is making to ensure that changes in our defense needs are brought about in ways that are fair to all affected groups and individuals. You rightly note our achievements in community assistance, and you rightly conclude that our work in this field must be improved still further. I agree with you that we must strengthen our aids to workers. I agree also that this is a task for state and local agencies and for private groups working in harmony with the Federal government.
What I find most encouraging of all in the report is your conclusion that our heavy current commitment to defense is not a bar to rapid progress toward disarmament. All Americans will welcome your clear conclusion that "there is no economic reason for the Nation to undergo a major economic decline or a slow stagnation if and when defense outlays are reduced."
The American people will continue to be determined that our great industrial effort for national defense is their servant and not their master. This is the tradition of the armed forces themselves, and it is the conviction, I am sure, of those who serve in the national defense industries, too.
This country will therefore go forward with renewed courage and conviction to provide the defenses that freedom demands and at the same time to press along the hard road toward the disarmament mankind must have.
Finally, your report gives eloquent restatement to the basic principle that sound decisions in a free society must be built on the best possible information. I strongly endorse your recommendation that your studies be continued, just as I strongly endorse your reaffirmation of the need for a constant growth in the basic research which can enlarge the opportunities for peaceful progress throughout our society.

Sincerely,
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
[Dr. Gardner Ackley, Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers]