THIS NATION has no finer or firmer commitment than our determination to conquer disease and improve the health of all people in our land and around the world.
We are seeking now to assure the availability of the best possible medical care to all citizens at all ages of life. Yet we recognize that the long-term success of our struggle against disease and suffering must come from our broader understanding of the fundamental factors underlying human health and disease.
The leading edge of our national effort is the research conducted by the National Institutes of Health. NIH currently provides 40 percent of all funds spent for health research in the United States. More than a year ago, I requested a committee of distinguished citizens to conduct the most comprehensive study yet made of NIH operations to determine the effectiveness and quality of this key Federal program.
The report of this committee--presented to me today--is reassuring and challenging.
I find especially reassuring the conclusion of the committee that "few, if any, $1 billion segments of the Federal budget are buying more valuable services for the American people than that administered by the NIH." It is most exceptional that of 240 traditional research grants investigated only 7 were judged by the committee to have been unworthy of support. The Public Health Service, the NIH staff, and the Congress--which has taken such a keen interest in advancing the NIH programs--can be gratified by this finding.
The comprehensiveness of the committee's approach to its study challenges administration of research programs throughout the Federal Government. I hope that the diagnostic techniques employed by this distinguished committee of non-Government experts will be applied to other Federal scientific programs--especially in regard to the relations between our universities and the Government. Our universities and educational institutions are a precious resource and we must continually seek ways to assure their more effective participation in our scientific programs.
The United States has achieved front rank in biomedical research--but we can do still better. I am confident that the committee's recommendations will contribute greatly to our continuing advance and I am asking Secretary Celebrezze to advise me on how these suggestions may be incorporated into the activities of his Department.
I appreciate the generous and selfless effort given by all members of the committee and all the many other outstanding participants in this White House study.