Dear Mr. President: (Dear Mr. Speaker: )
I request the doubling of the War Against Poverty.
In addition I request legislation to improve our ability to conduct that war.
We reaffirm our faith that poverty can be eliminated from this country, and our solemn commitment to prosecute the war against poverty to a successful conclusion. For that struggle is not only for the liberation of those imprisoned in poverty, but for the conscience and the values of a prosperous and free nation.
From the very beginning, this country, the idea of America itself, was the promise that all would have an equal chance to share in the fruits of our society.
As long as children are untrained, men without work, and families shut in gate-less 'poverty, that promise is unkept. New resources and knowledge, our achievements and our growth, have given us the resources to meet this pledge. Not meanly or grudgingly, but in obedience to an old and generous faith, let us make a place for all at the table of American abundance.
Our objective was stated by the Congress in the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964: "to eliminate the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty in this Nation by opening to everyone, the opportunity for education and training, the opportunity to work, and the opportunity to live in decency and dignity."
THE PAGE. OF PROGRESS We have already begun to move toward this objective:
Local anti-poverty programs have been approved in 44 of the 50 states, and by June every state will be taking part.
Work is now underway on 53 Job Corps Centers. Seven are already in operation and 15 will be completed each month. Each will be filled with young men or women anxious to learn and work, and to give themselves a new and often unexpected opportunity for a productive life.
We will, this year, provide a school readiness program for 100,000 children about to enter kindergarten. This will help them overcome the handicaps of experience and feeling which flow from poverty and permit them to receive the full advantages of school experience.
By July, 3,500 VISTA Volunteers, aged 18-82, will be working to help their fellow Americans in communities across the country.
25,000 families, eligible for public assistance, are now enrolled in a work-experience program which provides jobs and skills for the family breadwinners, giving them a new prospect of emerging from a poverty which often reaches back through three generations.
We have established procedures, processed applications, and begun to make loans to thousands of struggling rural families and to small businesses.
In 49 cities and 11 rural communities, Neighborhood Youth Corps have been established. In these Corps, young men and women, between 16-21 can work to keep themselves in school, to return if they have dropped out, or to prepare for permanent jobs.
35,000 college level students can now continue their education through the income provided by part-time jobs. And 35,000 adults will be taught to read and write this year.
THE RISE OF NATIONAL CONCERN All of these programs--the accomplishments of the first year and the hopes of the future--depend upon the concern and initiative of local communities. It is now clear that the war against poverty has touched the hearts and the sense of duty of the American people. This cause has truly become their cause.
Community action organizations, planning and organizing the local effort to end poverty, have sprung up in communities in every part of the country. Over 5,000 prominent citizens are serving, without pay, on such organizations. National groups, such as the American Bar Association, have pledged their special resources to the plight of the poor. And 75 national organizations have banded together in a Citizens Crusade Against Poverty to begin specific projects.
And the response of the American nation is growing each day. New community action proposals from local groups are coming in at a rate of 130 a month. We have already received 750 applications.
Applications for the Job Corps are arriving at a rate of nearly 6000 a day.
8,000 men and women have volunteered to serve their fellow citizens in the VISTA program.
We estimate that at least 90,000 adults will be ready to enroll in adult basic education programs during the coming year.
And the same steady rise of interest and hope can be seen in every part of our program. We cannot afford, in conscience or in the national interest, to disappoint these hopes or to waste the valuable resources of human skill and energy which we are now beginning to tap.
RECOMMENDATIONS Therefore I am requesting the Congress to authorize the continuation of these pro, grams for the next two years, and to authorize and appropriate 1.5 billion dollars to conduct them during the fiscal year.
I am also asking Congress to extend for ten months, to June 30, 1967, the period during which certain programs may be funded with 90 percent federal assistance. If we do not do this, then many communities, especially those in rural or isolated areas and which lack the resources to get underway quickly, will be unable to qualify before the cutoff date.
In addition I recommend transfer of the work-study program to the Office of Education in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, as well as a series of technical amendments.
Last year Congress and my administration took a step unparalleled in the history of any nation. We pledged ourselves to the elimination of poverty in America. That was our commitment to the people we serve, and it reflected not only our own intentions but the will of the American people. We knew, and said then, that this battle would not be easily or swiftly won. But we began. Today we can take together another step along the path to the fulfillment of the American dream for all our citizens.

Sincerely,
LYNDON B. JOHNSON