General LeMay and Mrs. LeMay, Mr. Under Secretary, Mr. Secretary of Air, ladies and gentlemen:
Thirty-six years ago two events occurred in the same month that have had very profound impact upon this Nation. In the month of October 1929 the stock market crashed in New York, and Curt LeMay got his wings in Texas and went the other way. Coincidental as those events were, both were quite symbolic. The stock market crash of '29 taught us that the price of success for our economic system is constant vigilance and understanding. Likewise, the young cadet who was commissioned at Kelly Field has devoted his career to helping teach us that the price of peace is preparedness, even as the price of liberty shall always be eternal vigilance.
In the span of General LeMay's service, America has changed. Our role in the world has changed. The technology of air power has changed, more than the mind really comprehends. Yet America's purpose at home and in the world has not changed, nor has the purpose of our arms or our strength.
Under Gen. Curtis LeMay, America has built the mightiest air arm the world has even known--the Strategic Air Command. Yet the sole purpose of SAC has been to preserve the peace, and that purpose will never change.
Today we are nearer the year 2000 than the year 1929. Over those years ahead weapons will change and strategies will change and challenges and dangers will change, but America's need and freedom's need will not change for the kind of dedicated, determined, demanding, and inspiring commander that is epitomized by Curtis LeMay. By his leadership and his imagination, this man of courage helped to shorten history's costliest war in both Europe and the Pacific, and he helped to prevent mankind's final war with both the response of the Berlin Airlift and the readiness of the Strategic Air Command.
General LeMay, all free men today are in your debt, and all your countrymen join with me in proudly and gratefully saluting you. In your service you have raised our standards in the military--our standards of readiness, of performance, of proficiency, and of economy. You have helped America set a worldwide watch for freedom, and that vigil will never cease until liberty and justice are secure on this earth.
I am very proud to confer upon you now, General LeMay, your fourth Distinguished Service Medal, and on behalf of a grateful country to wish you Godspeed and happy landings.
The Acting Secretary will now read the citation.