Mr. President, Mrs. Macapagal, distinguished guests:
This house of the American people is honored tonight by the presence of the President and the First Lady of a land that Americans love--the Republic of the Philippines.
Ten months ago, Mr. President, you came on a mission of sorrow to the funeral of our beloved President John F. Kennedy. All Americans are grateful to you for that moving gesture.
We are proud that you have returned tonight under happier circumstances on a mission of friendship.
When we first met in Manila, our guest and I were both Vice Presidents. He has since succeeded in being elected President and, needless to say, I find that example commendable tonight.
As we all know, our guest's election to his nation's highest office has opened a new era in the Philippines. To his people's courage and devotion to freedom, the President is adding a new dimension of responsible statesmanship. He has been unremitting in his efforts to bring about Asian solutions to problems that threaten conflict among Asian nations.
In your land and in mine, Mr. President, new generations are at the helm. In all free nations, new generations are on the threshold of leadership. These new generations must test the ties among free allies and must judge for themselves their value and their strength, but I have no doubt what that decision will be.
Those ideals which inspired so many people to reach for independence are not Western values or Asian values. They are abiding human values.
The worth of those values is eternal.
Our mutual devotion to them will be everlasting.
If freedom is to stand strong, free men must be devoted to strength, must be devoted to social justice, to the dignity of the individual, and to the love of peace.
On these principles the Philippines have risen from the ruins of war to build an economy offering the people one of the highest standards of living in all Asia. That economy is built on the foundation of free enterprise and on the foundation of private initiative.
The example of the Philippines shines to all nations seeking economic and social progress with freedom for the individual.
Mr. President, the Philippines have also been in the forefront of the fight against external challenge to the freedom that we so cherish.
You have met and you have defeated Communist subversion in the Philippines itself.
You were founder members of the SEATO alliance. You have extended a helping hand to Laos and Viet-Nam as they resist the common peril.
Tonight, the independence of free men is nowhere more threatened than in southeast Asia. So, I was greatly heartened when you told me personally this afternoon of your purpose to do all that you can to help meet this challenge.
In turn, I pledge again the full and continuing support of the United States to the Philippine Republic and to other like-minded and true friends.
None can know just how long the fight for freedom in southeast Asia will take, but we of the United States are resolved not to falter or to grow weary in the struggle.
Our constant and continuing hope is that around the realm of the great ocean named for peace there will grow a great community of peace. Our effort is directed toward building such a community where free men can trade together, where free men can work together and prosper together in freedom, in peace, without war.
In the creation of such a community, the Philippines serve as a valuable bridge of understanding between the East and the West.
We are so happy to have the distinguished Ambassador from your country in our house tonight. We honor him and have deep affection for him.
We are also delighted to have our own Ambassador, Ambassador Blair, return here with you. We think highly of him, and we hope that he enjoys his visit in your country.
So, Mr. President, we receive you in this country as the representative of an old and very valued ally.
But we welcome you even more as the leader of the new Philippines and as a new leader for freedom's cause everywhere.
So, I ask all of you here tonight to join me in a toast to His Excellency, the President of the Republic of the Philippines, to the continued friendship between the peoples of his Republic and ours and to the success throughout the world of freedom's cause.