Mr. President:
For myself and Mrs. Johnson--and for the people of the United States--I am proud to extend to you and your wife our warmest and most cordial welcome to this country and to this Capital.
We are particularly pleased that you come today as the first state visitor to Washington since our inauguration earlier this year.
The United States has--and is proud to have--strong and friendly ties with many peoples and many nations on every continent. But we are especially gratified by the growth of such relations with your continent-and with your country.
In these last two decades, independence has come for more than 1 billion people in 54 countries. Nowhere has this revolution of national independence had greater impact than in Africa. We are mindful, Mr. President, that less than 200 years ago our own forebears in America chose the course that you, and your generation, have chosen in these times.
Mr. President, here in America we understand what is in your heart--and the hearts of your countrymen--when you say, as you did recently: "If we wish to get along with and have relations with all nations, respecting their ideologies, we intend also and above all to evolve without interference."
History and fortune have smiled upon the United States. We are privileged to have great strength. But we believe that our strength means little unless we use it toward the end of assuring peoples who choose freedom the fight to live without interference from neighbors or adversaries.
This has been always a commitment of our people.
As a great President, whom I know you admire, Abraham Lincoln, once said of our Declaration of Independence: "It . . . gave promise that in due time the weights would be lifted from the shoulders of all men, and all should have an equal chance."
In America today, this generation of Americans is determined to fulfill that ideal by all that we do in the world and by all that we do here at home.
For all the long history of man, there have been injustices, there has been oppression, there has been evil. Today--in these times--we intend that these forces shall find not only their match but their master in the strength of our American Nation and in the moral resolve of our American people.
Mr. President, we invite and welcome the attention of all nations--young and old--to the agenda of the Congress of the United States. Our concerns are many; our responsibilities are great. But this week and this session, the American Congress is devoting itself to taking up the challenge of those ancient enemies of all mankind--ignorance, poverty, disease, and discrimination.
And, Mr. President, I want you to know that we are determined as a people to prevail against these foes.
You, Mr. President, are committed deeply to economic progress to improve the lives of your people. You seek with neighboring states realistic means of cooperation to promote mutual welfare. You have steadfastly and wisely denied comfort to those who would subvert the hard-won freedom of your continent.
These are aims which the American people support, too.
We of this land covet no empire, we seek no dominion anywhere in the world. We seek as you seek an Africa of strong and prosperous nations living at peace with their neighbors, free to choose their own .paths of progress.
To you, Mr. President, to your people, to all the peoples of Africa, the United States reaffirms its good will, its friendly support, and its resolute determination to stand with you in your struggle for human progress.