Mr. President and distinguished, welcomed guests:
Mr. President, it is a very happy privilege for me to welcome you once again to this country and to this Capital City of Washington.
You have honored us by your presence on previous occasions. Today we are very proud to honor you, and through you, to honor the people of Korea, for the numerous and the notable advances made by the Republic of Korea.
The economy of your country is growing in strength. Progress is being realized in the life of your people at home. In the world, Korea's role and influence is broadening. And all of this is coming as your democratic institutions grow in stability and meaning under the leadership of representative civilian government which you promised for the Korean people.
These advances are deeply gratifying to us here in the United States, Mr. President. The bonds between your land and ours are close and lasting.
Fifteen years ago--in the wake of history's most terrible war--your people and our people, and all the peoples of the earth yearned only for peace. Yet it was at the great moment of hope and opportunity the enemies of peace drew their sword and plunged it into your land and into your people.
In the first moments of that dear and present challenge, the United States moved to stand at once at your side--and there, Mr. President, we still stand, our sons and your sons stand together guarding the peace today. The enemies of peace and the foes of freedom still move in the world now, seeking to impose their will by aggression and subversion. But their chance to prevail is a much lesser chance now because of the response that was made in Korea by those United Nations which showed a decent respect for the values--as well as the opinions--of all mankind.
We welcome this strength that your land offers now to the defense of freedom not only in Korea but in Viet-Nam as well, Mr. President.
We have given our commitments to the security of your land, and I assure you that those commitments are durable and continuing so long as danger remains. But we have committed ourselves beyond military concerns alone, and I assure you that we shall work steadfastly with you to better the lot and the lives of your people.
The central contest of this century is the struggle against mankind's oldest oppressors-poverty, hunger, illness, and ignorance. Korea is making progress in its struggle against these enemies and, Mr. President, we stand resolutely with you in your progress toward self-sufficiency.
All around the world, this is the work which the American people want us most to do--to help others help themselves toward lives of decency and justice and opportunity under peace and freedom. Whether the struggle be near to our shores or far away, our resolve is firm and our resources are great, our faith is unyielding and it is unchanging.
So, Mr. President, a group of distinguished Americans from all the Government are here this morning to welcome you to the United States, as a friend of the United States, as an ally and as a coworker in the building of a better world for all mankind everywhere.