It was 100 years ago that Mark Twain journeyed from the heartland of America to your country, Mr. Prime Minister, and in one sentence unveiled the eternal appeal of Italy. "Simply say," he wrote, "that the Creator made Italy from designs by Michelangelo."
When the world was young, Italy was wise. The world is older now, but the wisdom of Italy is everlasting.
In our libraries reside Horace and Dante. In our courts are the ageless charters of Roman law and Roman order. In our museums are the great masters, whose names and style and value are unmistakably Italian. We have some great singers who are unmistakably Italian here tonight and, Mr. Prime Minister, in the highest councils of this Government-Secretary Celebrezze, Senator Pastore, Congressman Rodino, and a dozen or more who serve with him in the House. Yes, even in the most inner circles of the White House--Mr. Valenti--are men whose antecedents are also unmistakably Italian. And they seldom ever let me forget it.
Your nation's culture has endured, Mr. Prime Minister, because it contains values that are enduring, values that tower beyond the oceanic upheavals of today's crises, and values that uplift the human spirit in every generation in every land.
It is very hard at my desk to sift out of each day's business what will last and what will perish, but the leader of each country must try to do that or he must pay the consequences before the judgment seat of history. So, the aim of my country now in the struggle in southeast Asia is to defend universal and lasting values. That is why we are so deeply grateful to the good people of Italy for their unwavering support of our efforts.
Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Foreign Minister, we seek not to preserve what never should have been. We fight tonight to protect the right as ancient as man, the right of people to guide their own destiny. Our aim in Viet-Nam is clear--to give the people of that little country a chance to choose their way to the future without the terror of aggression from their neighbors.
There is no soil in Asia, or anywhere else, that we covet. There is no territory in Asia, or anywhere else, that we seek to conquer. There are no bases that we seek to hold. There is only the stake that all free men have in South Viet-Nam's efforts to stand on its own feet, and to choose its own path.
If those efforts fail, more than a nation dies. There are 99 others that are watching this outcome with anxiety tonight, but the right of self-determination dies with it, and the hope of people all over the world who strive to fashion out of their own culture and their own history the kind of a nation that they want.
The people of Italy and the people of the United States are deeply committed to this unchanging principle. Together we believe in, together we work for, the right of other people to decide for themselves.
Our objective is simple. We want truly independent nations to emerge on the world scene, each shaped by the people who live and work and die there. For we believe, Mr. Prime Minister, that these people will choose liberty and these people will choose peace.
I suppose that it is always very difficult for an Italian, an American, and a Frenchman to agree on anything. But I know the Prime Minister and I both agree with that great Frenchman, de Tocqueville, who said, "The democratic revolution is the most permanent tendency which is to be found in history."
This is why we shall continue, your country and mine, why we shall continue to work together in so great a cause as the independence of people, the independence of other nations who want so much what we already have.
In Latin America tonight we are working with our sister nations in an enterprise of freedom. We are striving to unleash the wonders of agriculture, science, and engineering. The thousands and thousands of people of Italian blood who live in Latin America cause you to want to extend your own helping hand m them.
So I rejoice in this worldwide Italian interest, an interest that your government and your people have manifested, by participating in both international and inter-American organizations to speed the economic and social progress of this hemisphere, too. And tonight I invite your government to discuss with us how we might cooperate further in the development programs of Latin America. I discussed this with Minister Fanfani when I was in his country a few months ago.
So, Mr. Prime Minister, you come to a land, and you come to a house, where your friends are legion, and where the blood of your nation runs strong and runs deep. You come as a new visitor but also as an old and trusted friend.
So, I salute you as a friend and companion, as a leader in the community of Europe, as a wise and respected voice on the stage of the world.
So, my fellow countrymen, whom we are privileged to have here with us this evening, my welcome visitors, I would hope that you would join me in expressing our gratitude to Italy, the fountainhead of our culture, the parent of so many of our citizens, as we gather here in this house and toast the noble President of the Republic of Italy.