Secretary Hodges, Mr. Haynes, Mr. Connor, Mr. Blackie, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a pleasure for me to welcome you to the White House this morning and to thank you for spending the day in Washington to tell us about your recent conversations in Moscow and about the prospects for trade between ourselves and the Soviet Union.
I have been very stimulated by the discussions that some of our exchanges have had with other countries in the world concerning our future relations with them and particularly our exchanging trade with them.
The Science Adviser to the President brought in a group the other day that had accompanied him to the Soviet Union, men from the Bell Laboratories and IBM and other prominent industrialists, and I spent a very fruitful few minutes listening to their experiences and to their recommendations.
As I have observed in my communications to my countrymen, I have suggested that the leadership in Government--and that would be Secretary Hodges and the new Secretary, Mr. Connor, and Secretary of Labor and other Cabinet officers--pursue relentlessly with the leaders of business in this country and the leaders of labor some of their recommendations that have come out of these exchanges and out of these studies. The Chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee has recently sent a questionnaire to leading business people throughout our country asking for their views and their recommendations. I look forward to receiving reports from these various groups that are applying themselves to this project and I will carefully review their findings and their conclusions and reach some of my own and at an appropriate time submit my recommendations to the Congress.
I think all of you know your Government is committed to explore ways to increase peaceful trade with the Soviet Union and with the countries of Eastern Europe. Now the leaders of both business and labor have had some exchanges and have some good solid recommendations, some of which you made this morning and we will want to pursue further. I am confident that the results of these meetings will, and these trips, these exchanges, will be to improve both our understanding and theirs of what must be done if we are to take advantage of the possibility of trade between us.
As I observed a night or so ago when I addressed the Congress, if we are to live together in peace, we must know each other better. A long axiom in my political thinking has been that a man's judgment is no better than his information on any given subject. You men who have gone there and made a study of these problems are bringing the American people information which is quite essential to their determining what is a wise policy for this Nation. I think there is no better way to come to know each other than to engage in peaceful and profitable commerce together. I think it is extremely important that we constantly keep in view our own national interest and what is best for our own country, and these exchanges no doubt will help some of you to point up what is best for our national interest.
I want to again thank you for your initiative and for your enterprise and for the time that you have taken to make this study. Your assessment of what we ,night do to expand our trade with these countries in peaceful goods is most welcome. I assure you that in the early days of the new administration, that the most competent talent available to us in government, in business, and in labor will be recruited and their recommendations considered to the end that we determine what would be a wise and proper policy for our Government.
I thank you for coming here. I enjoy getting to know you. I don't want to put in any commercials for any particular companies but to those men that have had to shoulder an extra load while you have been gone from your desks I hope you will carry them the President's appreciation. I started out my career as a youngster on a highway gang riding a 5-ton tractor and last week I observed with a great deal of pride what a Caterpillar bulldozer can do, so I want to say to Mr. Blackie if his recommendations are as solid as his equipment, they are going to receive very good consideration.