Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished guests:
Unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, since November 3, I want to ask your indulgence this evening in order that I may present to all of you some of the individuals that I want you to know and whom some of you may already know but all of whom have played or are playing a very vital part in the life of our two countries.
First of all, I want to present the Foreign Secretary, Mr. Patrick Gordon Walker.
The Defence Secretary, Sir Denis Healey. An old friend, Lord Mountbatten.
Our own beloved Chief Justice Warren.
The Vice President-elect, Mr. Humphrey.
The next Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate--if the Republicans come to power--Mr. Hickenlooper.
Our own Secretary of State, Dean Rusk.
Our Secretary of Defense, Bob McNamara.
Our Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Douglas Dillon.
One of the great leaders of our time, the former Secretary of State, Mr. Dean Acheson.
We are very honored and very privileged that we could have in this house this evening three men who over a long period of time have represented with great distinction our country in the United Kingdom.
First, I want to present Mr. Lewis Douglas, former Ambassador to Great Britain.
Now, Lew, you stand up a little longer. There are some girls down here who didn't get to see you.
The former distinguished Ambassador, and my friend, Mr. Jock Whitney of New York.
The present great Ambassador, Mr. David Bruce.
One of the bright lights of the ambassadorial corps and one of our great friends, Lord Harlech.
So, this house is honored tonight by the presence of a most welcome and a most distinguished visitor and his party.
This is one of many talks that we have had and are going to have in the future, and I trust just one of many visits.
Mr. Prime Minister, I want you to know that I am really enjoying them, although sometimes diplomatic negotiations recall Mark Twain's story of his visit to a friend up in New Hampshire.
Mark Twain was walking along the road and he asked a farmer, "How far is it to Henderson's place ?"
"About a mile and a half," the farmer answered.
He walked awhile longer and he met another farmer and he asked the same question, "How far is it to Henderson's place?" The farmer answered, "About a mile and a half."
Mark Twain walked a little farther and he met a third farmer and he again asked, "How far is it to Henderson's place?" "About a mile and a half," the farmer answered.
"Well," said Twain, "Thank God I am holding my own."
For the information of my own constituency, I would like to observe tonight that I am not sure that I am holding my own-after today's discussions.
We have many difficult problems. I am sure the traditional British ability to find reasoned solution will ultimately prevail.
During World War II the British Minister in Algeria was called upon to mediate a dispute between British and American officers. The American officers wanted drinks served before their meals. The British wanted their drinks served after their meals. He came up with this answer: "In deference to the British," he said, "we will all drink after meals and in deference to the Americans, we will all drink before the meal."
This kind of British genius has solved a great many problems.
I had some very special advice, Mr. Prime Minister, just a few minutes before you arrived. My wife whispered in my ear as we were coming out to greet you this morning. She said, "Dear, this is Judgment Day and be sure you use plenty of it!"
I have tried to follow her advice. As I sat in these meetings throughout the day, I heard in my mind the sound of an ageless phrase: "There will always be an England."
As I listened to the distinguished Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary and the Defense Secretary, I think I heard, also, the voices of the British people--those few, those happy few, that band of brothers who won freedom for that island, were also the architects of a way of life that today is measured in freedom and in hope and in light.
Scattered out among 3 billion persons in the world, the British love liberty and they embrace freedom and they despise bondage. Those who would destroy freedom in the world will always find the British people undaunted and unafraid and undismayed and ready to defend that freedom, whatever the cost or whatever the burden.
All of us can remember early in World War II, when the light of freedom flickered and for a time almost lost its flame. Britain stood there at the bridge like Horatio of old, and held slavery at bay until the world beyond the ocean's sea could awaken and could arm and could join them in the fight.
So, on this night of the anniversary of Pearl Harbor, I believe that whenever liberty is threatened, whenever the choice is between freedom and slavery, the voice of Parliament will be heard and the support of the British will be ready, ready again to preserve and to protect the way of life that they love and they have taught all of us to love.
So, when the role of honor is called and the stewards of freedom are acclaimed, no people will have a contribution as large or as strong or as persistent as this Island of Great Britain.
It gives us much pleasure and great happiness to have the distinguished Prime Minister and his party here with us this evening. And I now should like for all of my special friends to join me in raising our glasses to Her Majesty, the Queen.