President Diaz Ordaz, Mrs. Diaz Ordaz, Senator Mansfield, distinguished Members of the Congress, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:

About a year ago, two signatures were placed on a declaration in Spanish and English in the City of Juarez.
The international boundary between Mexico and the United States was changed.
It was changed without a shot being fired, without the massing of troops on frontiers, without an exchange of threats through respective embassies.
The course of a historic river was to be permanently altered.
The Chamizal--symbol of contention for more than 100 years--was returned to Mexico. It was no small accomplishment.
Credit for it must go to hundreds of dedicated Mexicans and Americans who labored long for many years to achieve it.
It must go particularly to President Adolfo Lopez Mateos, with whom I first discussed this project as far back as 1958 and after whom the new Rio Grande Channel is deservedly named, and for whose improved health we all pray, and to the farsighted and the beloved late President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, who gave a new urgency to the settlement of this old dispute.
These men were determined to seek justice for both of their countries. They believed that nations, like men, must not be trapped by the ideologies or the events of the past.
They had the courage to believe that there are few problems between reasonable nations which cannot be solved--no matter how complicated, no matter how emotional or sanctified by age.
So, for 4 long years now, I have worked with my dear friend, and the friend of all of the citizens of my country, the most distinguished President of Mexico, Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, to complete the Chamizal story.
We believe that we have worked out together a fair and a just solution, and we have worked it out in peace.
"Respect for the rights of others is peace," said Benito Juarez. Peace is also sharing the burdens of hemispheric leadership. Peace is mutual respect for the unique national and cultural identity of other peoples.
I told my daughter only yesterday that my wish for my grandson was that he would learn to speak Spanish as he learned to speak English. And I believe he understands a little more Spanish today than he does English.
Peace is the free commerce of men and ideas and goods across borders.
The finest thing I know to say about both countries, and both Presidents, and both peoples is that as we sit here today we have no armies patrolling our borders. We have confidence in each other and we have peace with one another.
Now, peace is the active development of physical resources and human potential. The International Boundary and Water Commission has shown us in concrete terms how peace and understanding can bring about economic, social, and educational development.
The magnificent works along this river are eloquent testimony to the Commission's success. Land has been redeveloped. New bridges have been built--including the impressive structure on which we gather here today. An unpredictable river has been converted into a controlled source of water-water for irrigation, water for electric power, water for recreation--for Mexicans and Americans alike.
To insure that the movement of men and ideas and goods will continue between our two countries in the border areas, President Diaz Ordaz and I agreed to create the United States-Mexico Commission for Border Development and Friendship 2 years ago, during my happy visit to your capital, Mexico City.
Long after our words of today are gone and forgotten, something more important is going to endure--channels between men, bridges between cultures, border commissions which link the human values that Mexico and America hold dear. These, my friends, will never pass away if we are true to our heritage.
Together, we have shown that borders between nations are not just lines across which men shake their fists in anger. They are also lines across which men may clasp hands in common purpose and friendship. And throughout our periods of respective service, no head of state, no leader of any nation has worked closer, cooperated better, or extended the hand of friendship more than the most distinguished President of Mexico, and we are all grateful for it.
In the years to come, Mr. President, the American people are going to demonstrate to you and your people that we are worthy of your trust and your confidence and we are going to return the hand of friendship that you have extended all the time to us.

Gracias, amigos.