Your Highness, Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, Secretary and Mrs. Rusk, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:

We are all pleased that you could be here to share this evening with us. This is the last of these happy occasions, these state visits, that I shall attend here in the White House.
And I think it is most fitting that our guest of honor tonight should be the Amir of Kuwait, for his country has set many examples for the other nations of the world to follow.
Those of you who are not very familiar with Kuwait may know it only as an oil producing country. But under the very wise and progressive leadership of our distinguished guest, Kuwait has developed not only its natural resources, but has also developed its human resources.
His Highness has worked wonders for the welfare of his people. He has provided free education. He has provided medical care. He has created job opportunities which will assure them lives of independence and dignity.
Perhaps the most stirring example of Kuwait's success is the amount of assistance that it is able to give to other more needy countries.
In terms of its gross national product, Kuwait devotes 12 percent of its resources to various forms of foreign assistance to its neighbors and other nations of the world.
This very small state leads the entire world in its contributions to helping others. And I wish that other nations, including our own, were doing nearly as well in terms of percentage points.
I have enjoyed very much the frank discussions that I have had with His Highness this afternoon.
All Americans are deeply concerned over the plight of one group of people in the Middle East who are especially on my mind tonight--those victims of 20 years of war, who have lost their homes and who must be returned to normal lives if peace is ever to come to that area.
Our two countries, sir, are separated by great distances and they do differ somewhat in size. But I know from our talks this afternoon that we do have the same objectives, we do have the same hopes, and we do share the same goals--peace in the world, regional stability, the assurance of justice and hope for the men and women and children who have for so long been denied a fair start in their pursuit of happiness.
So, it is with great pleasure that Mrs. Johnson and I have the privilege of being here with the leading citizens from throughout this Nation--from all of its 50 States--and I should like to ask all of you ladies and gentlemen to join me in a toast to our honored guest, the Amir of Kuwait.