President and Mrs. Diaz Ordaz, Senator Mansfield, Senator Yarborough, Senator Anderson, Senator Montoya, Members of the House of Representatives and the Congress of both of our Republics, most distinguished members of the judiciary, and my fellow, Americans:
This is probably the last time that I shall meet you as President of the United States. But it will not be our last visit together, for my friendships in Texas, and my career in public life, have been linked with Mexico and its citizens and its leaders.
You and your countrymen hold a very special place in my heart. Almost 40 years ago, I taught in a little school at Cotulla, where many of the students were Americans of Mexican heritage. I learned a good many lessons in life from these students.
I learned that differences in language and culture, and where you were born, were not important if you had the same dreams of promise and fulfillment.
In the past 4 years I have learned even more about Mexico--its proud and energetic and talented people. We have been blessed by a very close personal and professional relationship with a farsighted leader, President Gustavo Diaz Ordaz.
Because of our friendship and our common trust, a number of problems between Mexico and the United States have already been resolved.
When I look at President Diaz Ordaz, when I consider the closeness of our families, when I look at all our friends at these tables, I am reminded of the priceless advantage that the United States has in sharing a 2,000-mile unfortified border with a hospitable, stable, and staunchly independent Mexico.
Mexico and the United States are linked by a common border. We are linked by a personal philosophy of individual freedom and worth. We are linked by the ideals of both the Mexican and the American Revolutions. And we are linked more and more by common projects.
In 1958 when I met with former President Lopez Mateos, prior to his inauguration, at his request, in Mexico--whose restored good health we never cease hoping for--we discussed a number of very important matters that we hoped Mexico and the United States someday could undertake together.
We agreed that a concentrated attack ought to be made on the persistent problem of the screwworm with its damaging effects on livestock throughout Mexico and in the American Southwest.
Well, enormous progress has been made during the last 10 years in our two countries' common efforts to eradicate that cattle disease. The battle is not yet won totally, but I hope in my day to see that parasite completely eliminated from both nations. And I am going to continue my strong personal interest in this problem which afflicts both Mexico and the United States.
We discussed ways to increase, substantially, the exchange between our two nations, the exchange of our legislators, of our students, of our teachers, of our professors, and visits of people between our two countries. That hope was fulfilled beyond our expectations as both private and government exchange programs between our two nations have reached new dimensions.
Our distinguished Majority Leader has been present as a representative of our country, as have other Members of the House and Senate here today. Senator Mansfield, a great friend of Mexico and the United States, has been present at eight meetings of our Congressmen of the two Republics.
We planned for the building of dams on our rivers and controlling the great water resources which we share as neighboring countries. That, too, will have come to pass with the completion of the great dams, such as Amistad and Falcon.
And we spoke of the Chamizal. We expressed our earnest hopes that one day that age-old problem would be resolved by sitting down together and working out a just solution that would be beneficial to both Mexico and the United States. And that, too, has happened.
Along the Rio Grande this morning we saw the new channel that is named for the illustrious former President, Lopez Mateos, which now fixes the course of that historic river; and land that was once disputed is returned to the jurisdiction of Mexico.
A century-old dispute has been ended, but the common projects which involve men and minds and rivers and dams must never be ended.
In the reaches of space, Mexico helps to track the orbits of America's Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo space missions. Millions of tourists cross our borders both ways each year.
The strength of your peso adds to the stability of our dollar. And together we fight crop disease and animal plague.
Each year trade between our two nations continues to grow. We must continue to seek out new projects which require the cooperation between our energetic and growing nations. For in such cooperation lies the key to a new era of development for all of us.
I said this morning that a border need not be a line across which people shake their fists. It can be, instead, a line across which men may clasp their hands in common purpose and friendship.
I am delighted to say today that President Diaz Ordaz and I have tried very, very hard, and I think somewhat successfully, to do just that for 4 years.
We have tried to be, and I think we have been, good neighbors for each other. We have allied ourselves for progress. We have helped and supported each other in every way we knew how, whenever we knew what the need was.
Now, conscious of the rich contributions of each country to the well-being of the other country, I ask all of you to rise and join me in toasting His Excellency, our great friend, the President of the Republic of Mexico, Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, his lovely wife, his family, and most of all, the beloved Mexican people.