Your Excellency, Mrs. Hoveyda, Vice President Humphrey, Mrs. Humphrey, distinguished guests:
Few things are guaranteed to make an American feel more mortal than a visit from a leader of Iran.
In 8 years, we will be all excited about celebrating our 200th birthday in this country. Iranians can be forgiven if they wonder what all the excitement is about.
Last year Iran celebrated its 2,500th birthday. The success and the stability of Iran's Government is proof of the ancient saying, "He who is of a calm and happy nature will hardly feel the pressure of age."
When the founders of our country were debating what kind of government America should have, some argued that the title of President wasn't majestic enough. They wanted to call the Chief Executive, King. Some suggested Potentate. And I am just as glad that they settled for President.
How much I would hate to think how our fourth estate would react if they were told that they had to refer to me as the Shahanshah.
Your Excellency, it is always a pleasure, sir, for Americans to welcome visitors from your remarkable nation. Iran stands as a living symbol of two worlds--the world of the past, with your history of great literary and artistic achievement; and the world of the present, with your inspiring record of social and economic progress, which is the envy of the world.
We know that the dynamism of Iran owes much to the enlightened leadership of His Majesty--a great statesman and, we think, a very good friend.
He has long believed that the only monuments that are worthy of a nation are the living monuments of continuous achievement.
This afternoon I had a very long and a very frank discussion with the Prime Minister. He told me about some of the monuments that have been built in Iran; about he and the Shah, how they are urging young people to take part in the Government and to embark on careers in public service.
He told me about the vast improvements in Iran's schools and universities; about the great work that is being done to eradicate poverty and disease and ignorance; about the enthusiasm and the energy of his people and their dedication to breaking new ground in the scientific and technological fields; and above all, as the Prime Minister said to me this afternoon, he is talking to them about the monument of peace.
Here in America, we are trying so hard to change the face of our own land. We are trying to build an America that is responsive abroad and that is responsible at home; an America of justice, an America of freedom, an America of strength, and above all, a country of compassion.
What you, Mr. Prime Minister, are achieving in Iran, and what we are trying so hard to achieve here, is going to endure longer than any statue of bronze.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will please join me and Iran's most able and gifted Prime Minister, in saluting tonight his country's sovereign. To his Imperial Majesty, the Shahanshah of Iran.