Mr. President, Mr. Justice Stewart, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
I have spent some very happy and productive hours today with our distinguished visitor. I have told him that we Americans understand his dreams and the impatience of his people to achieve them.
We know what you mean, Mr. President, when you go at the work of national development, as you have expressed it, with your hoe in your hand. We Americans have hoed the fields of a frontier, too. And we have felt the awe of the desert and the thrill of the mountaintops and the openness of the plains.
We know, as you know, that there is no easy way to progress, no answer in any single formula, and no progress unless educated men are willing and are anxious to get sweat on their brows in an effort to tame the harsh countryside.
We built and we endured in America as you are building and as you will endure. This is the shared experience of our peoples. This is why we take great pride in every step that you take forward.
I believe, Mr. President, that you will find basic understanding of other African issues during your visit in the United States.
Sir, this morning we spoke of the new surge of African cooperation. We acknowledged the interrelation of regional cooperation with economic growth. That, too, is a concept that Americans feel at home with.
Our Nation, a subcontinental nation, is founded on the idea of sovereign states cooperating in every conceivable way.
The United States, in a manner of speaking, comprised the first common market. We have been very active over the last 200 years in many of the other aspects of what we call regional development.
Just this very week I was quite proud to sign into law measures that will provide for the very wise development of two long interstate rivers in America--both the Colorado and the Arkansas.
This is river development that in smaller nations would require interregional cooperation.
So, Mr. President, I think you will find us both responsive and quite sympathetic to your needs and to your views, to your nation that you so ably represent, and to the continent from which you come.
Mrs. Johnson and I are delighted that you could be with us in the First House of the land tonight. I appreciate so much the time we could spend together.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to raise your glasses to the distinguished President of Chad and to the brave nation which he represents.