Dear Mr. President: (Dear Mr. Speaker:)

There is transmitted herewith a draft of a bill to further amend Reorganization Plan No. i of 1958, as amended, in order to change the name of the Office of Emergency Planning.
The name "Planning" no longer indicates the scope or functions of this Office. While the agency has emergency planning and coordinating authority, the major part of its jurisdiction covers current management and operational responsibilities tinder important legislation, including responsibility for certain defense production, strategic and critical stockpiling, investigating imports which threaten to in, pair the national security, Federal assistance in major natural disasters, and telecommunications. The Director is a statutory member of the National Security Council, and the main thrust of the agency's work is non-military emergency preparedness.
In addition, I have used the Director and the Office for more than three years as my liaison with the Governors and as a clearinghouse to help solve administrative problems which arise between Federal and State executive agencies. This has significantly improved Federal-State relations, as is best evidenced by the enclosed resolution adopted unanimously by the recent National Governors' Conference in Cincinnati. The Governors' Conference Resolution entitled "Office of Emergency Preparedness and Federal-State Relations in the Executive Office of the President," recommends that Congress change the name of the Office of Emergency Planning to describe more accurately its traditional operations and to add a description of its Federal-State relations function, suggesting the title "Office of Emergency Preparedness and Federal-State Relations."
I agree with the Governors' recommendation and the enclosed bill is designed to accomplish that purpose. I respectfully request that the proposed bill be introduced for consideration and enactment either as a separate Act or as an amendment to any appropriate pending legislation.

Sincerely,
LYNDON B. JOHNSON