PRESIDENT THIEU, welcome to the United States.
I welcome your proposal that we come here to meet for 2 days of talks, Mr. President.
The success of our joint cause requires us to consult closely on matters of war and peace. I look forward to your state visit in quieter times.

I am glad that we could meet once again in this crossroads of the Pacific, among the good people of Hawaii.
At our last meeting here, you affirmed your country's determination to embark on the road towards constitutional, representative government.
Today, we pay tribute to what you and your countrymen have done to achieve that vital goal. A constitution has been drafted and ratified. The institutions it provides have been established through free elections. That is truly remarkable progress--almost unprecedented progress in a country that is torn by war and victimized by aggression.
At all of our meetings over the past 2 1/2 years, you have stressed your country's policy of reconciliation and peace. Since we met in Canberra last December, formal talks have begun in Paris. We devoutly hope that they are the first step on the difficult path to peace--an honorable peace under which the people of your country will determine their own future.
Mr. President, our pledge to help your people defeat aggression stands firm against all obstacles and against any deception.
We want you to take back to your countrymen our hope and our conviction that their courage and their faith will be rewarded with a just peace with full freedom.
America and South Vietnam have different histories and our cultures spring from different roots.
But the blood of our countrymen has flowed together in the defense of ideals and in the pursuit of goals that have united us in ways that are far more important than those that divide us.
Mr. President, we are so glad that we could meet again. We all look forward to our talks with you during the next 2 days with great anticipation and with great pleasure. I feel fully confident that these talks will contribute to our common cause.

We are glad to have you with us.