Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Gorton, Secretary and Mrs. Rusk, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. Prime Minister, it is a very great pleasure for Mrs. Johnson and me to welcome you and your most charming wife to our country.
We have very little to offer in the way of surprises. Mrs. Gorton is a native of New England. We have some New England weather for her this morning. But she already knows all of our secrets anyway. Even if she did not, you, yourself, Mr. Prime Minister, are the Prime Minister of Australia-and the Australians and the Americans have so much in common that we seem to understand each other almost on sight anyway.
Our peoples have been molded by the same forces. Both of our continents are vast. Both of our histories are young. Both of our governments are free. All of our people were drawn from many lands. We both enjoy an abundance which, for most of the world, is yet just a dream.
We share a common vision. We see a world where might does not make right. We strive for a world where nations can live together in peace and freedom under the rule of law.
We have been fighting for this dream for a long time now. Twenty-five years ago we fought side by side from the Middle East to the South Pacific. Today we are fighting side by side in the rice fields in Vietnam.
I do not know how close we may be to success in our common--and our historic-- cause.
But I do know that you, Mr. Prime Minister, come here at a moment of very historic importance. Our American aim is now, as it has been from the beginning, to achieve peace with honor, a peace which will permit the people of Asia and the South Pacific to work out their own destiny in their own way. We have never sought anything else, and we will not accept anything else.
I believe that Australia shares that aim, and I look forward with a great deal of anticipation to our conversations about this-and about many other common concerns.
Mr. Prime Minister, you and your countrymen are always welcome in Washington. I think you will soon find that, although you are half a world away from Australia, you are still very much at home.

Thank you very much.