Your Excellency, Mr. Vice President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
We honor tonight a courageous patriot-the founder of modern Tunisia.
President Bourguiba, who knows something of fighting, lives with the benefits of peace. In the new schoolhouses, hospitals, highways, and the fertile fields that mark his ancient country, he sees what peace has brought to his people and what he believes it can bring the developing world.
He is a revolutionist, yes, but he is a builder, too. He led his nation to independence, and building on a freedom that is newly won. President Bourguiba knows that a nation may be politically independent, but not truly free, unless its people, living in peace, are free to pursue the better life to which all men aspire.
A just peace can be achieved all around the Mediterranean:

--if men will turn their thoughts and their energies and their resources to its achievement;

--if men will acknowledge that compromise can show strength, that wisdom may travel with forbearance, that honor lies in statesmanship.
It is they--the people of the Middle East-who must take up the work of a just peace. Others cannot do it for them. But America will always try to help them in that work as I explained to the President earlier today--without concern for our own gain.
Tonight I reaffirm that the United States stands ready to assist all these troubled nations in their peaceful development. We have dedicated ourselves, within the United Nations and outside, to achieve a durable peace. We have pledged our help to resolve the age-old problems that obstruct the path toward comity between nations.
Tonight, with a friend who has given the world hope by his example, we again renew that pledge.
President Bourguiba, I understand that in your country you are affectionately called "the Supreme Combatant." In our country we would call you the "Grand Champion."
Ladies and gentlemen, let us now raise our glasses in salute to a champion of peace, freedom, and justice--to President Bourguiba of Tunisia.