I AM very proud of what we have been able to do in the vocational education field.
I have observed nothing in my contacts with young people--and I have two or three groups a day, in the hope that I can learn something from them and keep contact with them, and maybe they can learn something from coming here--that pleased me more than your presentation. I don't think I have heard a better one.
The fact that you were aware that you were in the presence of Jackson, Lincoln, and Roosevelt, and tied it into the remarks you had to make, and where the wood came from, is just another indication that our school system is doing a pretty good job in this day and time.
All we hear sometimes are challenges to our future. A lot of people wonder about what our young people are doing, then we see a demonstration like you put on here this morning. It makes me think that every dollar we have invested in our schools has been returned with interest.

Yes, I served with Mr. Doughton of North Carolina for a long time. He was a great leader of the Ways and Means Committee. I have had a rather intimate association with the Members of Congress from your State. My grandfather came from your State.
I am so proud we are producing 18-yearolds in this Nation who can come in the presence of the President in the Cabinet Room and probably make a better presentation than either the President or the members of the Cabinet. I hope the people you represent are as proud of you as I am. I hope you will tell your family what an excellent job the President thought you did.
We are very, very strong for vocational education. We are very proud of the landmark legislation we passed. Under 35 Presidents, the primary legislative matters in the educational field were in the field of vocational education, the George-Deen Act, the Smith-Hughes Act, and creating the Office of Education itself, in Andrew Johnson's time.
But when you added all of those educational matters together, you had less than you could count on your fingers in 35 previous administrations. Because the emphasis has been on learning and moving forward in the 21st century, and the need to know, driving ignorance from our midst, we have passed three times as many bills in the last 4 years in the educational field as we did in all the other 35 administrations put together. We see that it is paying off in all of you.

Thank you.