Attorney General Clark, Director Hoover, Dean Griswold, distinguished Members of Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
This morning we have come here to the Cabinet Room because it gives us an opportunity to honor courage--not, as often in these times, the courage of the battlefield, but the quieter courage that is exhibited by our finer citizens in their everyday life.
I am doubly pleased because these awards pay tribute to the idealism and the commitment of our American youth.
There is a great deal of ferment among many of our young people today. Some of it is foolish and some of it is self-destructive. But most of it represents power--power for good, power for constructive change. I think most of it is brave and most of it is selfless.
William Glynn is receiving the Young American Medal for Bravery. He was just 15 years old when he saved a drowning man off Long Island. For more than 2 hours, he battled 14-foot waves to keep the exhausted and the unconscious man from slipping away to a certain death.
Carmalita Capilla and Mary Lynne Donohue are receiving medals for service.
Carmalita devoted almost all of her free time to helping the less fortunate mentally ill at Hawaii State Hospital. One hospital official said, "You could follow Carmalita by the trail of smiles she left with the patients."
Mary Lynne was president of the Sheboygan Association of Youth. She directed more than 1,000 young people in fundraising for the March of Dimes and the USO.
She was a member of the Steering Committee of the Sheboygan Human Rights Association. Somehow, she still managed to finish in the top 5 percent of her high school class.
There were 70 other nominees--from 23 States, Guam, and Puerto Rico--who did not win medals. But we value them nonetheless.
In this period of our history, when we so often see on our screens and so often read in our newspapers the mistakes that have been made and the errors that have been committed, it is refreshing and stimulating to hear and to see some of the things that make our Nation the great nation that it is.
They--and you--are a credit to your generation. You are an inspiration to your President and to your country.

Thank you very much.