Your Excellency, Lady Chongkol, Secretary and Mrs. Rusk, General and Mrs. Chapman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: Welcome to the United States.
It has been many months since we began planning this visit. Yet, because of the events of the last few days, your arrival today is especially timely.
There is a fresh breeze of hope circulating around the world. It concerns both of our Nations, as well as many other nations.
Thus, it is a good time for men to meet and to reflect. It is a time to set our long term aims and our aspirations for the days ahead.
Mr. Prime Minister, America's aims are simple and straightforward.
We believe that freedom and peace in America can only be secured if America remains involved in, and concerned with, the future of human freedom throughout the world.
We believe that the cause of freedom and progress can be worked for both economically and politically.
The experience of Thailand over recent years shows that great economic progress is possible when a motivated people seek it, and work toward it, in freedom. The Thai economic growth rate over the last 7 years has surpassed 7 percent per year---one of the highest rates in all the world.

We believe that human freedom thrives best when men have the right to determine their own political destiny.
That has been our aim in Vietnam: to help a nation in its struggle to determine its own destiny. As that simple--but very difficult-objective becomes secure, the American role in Vietnam will diminish and disappear. I stated that in Manila in 1966; it was stated by General Westmoreland again in late 1967; it has been stated by our Secretary of State; and Secretary Clifford restated it just a few weeks ago.
In Bangkok in 1966, at your beautiful university there, I said to the leaders in Hanoi, "Let us lay aside our arms and sit down... at the table of reason .... Enough of this sorrow. Let us begin the work of healing .... "
There is hope now, finally, some hope that that offer will bear fruit and that an honorable peace could come.
The world knows that the brave Thai people have been in the front rank of those who fought the good fight for freedom in Southeast Asia. Thailand was the first nation--the first nation--to join with America in the successful U.N. effort in Korea in 1950. Thailand was the first member to ratify the SEATO Treaty. Thai troops today stand and fight shoulder to shoulder with us in South Vietnam.
Mr. Prime Minister, it is good to have such a staunch ally by one's side as we begin this time of hope and recommitment to our principles.
Welcome again. We look forward with great pleasure to the time that you can spend here with us and to the profitable exchanges that we sincerely believe will take place.