His Majesty, Secretary Rusk, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been said that America is the half brother of the world.
And certainly that is true, Your Majesty, of Norway and Norwegians. There are almost as many Norwegian Americans as there are Norwegians in your own country.
Here in our country, Americans of Norwegian descent number more than 3 million. They include many of our most distinguished Americans, our very able Vice President among them.
Your Majesty, it was just 21 years ago that President Truman spelled out America's family relationship with Europe.
1947 was the year of the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan. It was also the year that postwar isolationism in the United States was finally buried. President Truman understood the implications of America's involvement in European affairs. He said:
"This is a serious course upon which we embark. "I would not recommend it except that the alternative is much more serious."
Today there is no doubt that Europe is once again a very vital and prospering center of the world. There should also be no doubt that the United States remains as closely bound to our North Atlantic partners-closely joined in common history, culture, ideals, and endeavors.
The real question today is not whether America and Europe are still partners. Of course we are partners. But the real question is, what will we be partners for?
President Truman said back there in 1947, "... we must assist free peoples to work out their own destinies in their own ways."
If there is evidence anywhere in the world today that a small, free nation can become a great and creative and independent nation, that example is surely to be found in your country--Norway.
I believe that Americans and Europeans must rededicate themselves to the purposes of partnership that united us and has united us for 21 years.

The original concepts of the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan are valid today, as we stand here. They are valid all over the world.
So, working together, I think there is nothing that we cannot do together. We can make every continent of this world a better and safer place for the children and the grandchildren of our world. We can better humanity wherever humanity exists.
It will not be easy. It will take us decades. It will require energy and talent and resources and treasure.
But as President Truman so wisely and courageously observed, the alternative is harder to accept.
Your Majesty, we celebrate the joint efforts of our past. We look forward to future cooperation for human dignity. I welcome you to America as an old friend of this country.
I thank you again on behalf of Mrs. Johnson and myself for the cordiality with which your people received us and for the warm exchanges we had in your country in our most pleasant visits with you.
We are so happy to have you in our country. The sunshine now is coming out to welcome you.