Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Cabinet, Member of the Congress, Dr. Hornig, most distinguished guests:
Once again, America honors a dozen distinguished men of science.
Their achievements inspire us to consider not only what science has done for us, but to consider what remains for it to do.
We have asked much of our scientists. In return, we have provided considerable support to scientific endeavor.
In the current fiscal year, the Federal Government is spending $18 billion on scientific research and development, and assistance to science education.
For the coming year, we must make a Government-wide effort to reduce expenditures. So we have not been able to allot as much as we would like for fellowships for our basic research.
I begrudge every economy and every necessity of today that limits our support of science--even momentarily. Although our spending for science is vast in comparison with earlier days, I want it to be larger still. For science has a big job to do.
In 8 years, America will enter its third century. Science and technology enable us to look forward to an age that will further enlighten our lives, ease our labors, and exalt our civilization.
But there are other, grimmer forecasts. Wise men worry about a world that is unable to feed itself--about a society that is smothered in smog--about the coming of a "silent spring."
These flaws in our environment are not the fault of science alone. Their more immediate causes lie in the growth of technology, in industry, and, of course, urbanization.
But an aggrieved public does not draw the fine line between "good" science and "bad" technology. The passenger in the jet credits science with the miracle of flight. But when he is on the ground, he is just as quick to blame science--for the traffic jam at the airport, or for the noise of the jets overhead.
You and I know that Frankenstein was the doctor, not the monster. But it would be well to remember that the people of the village, angered by the monster, marched against the doctor.
In a democratic society, the public attitude toward science must always be a real concern of the scientific community. If that attitude is to be favorable, science must be prepared to play its part in correcting the flaws in our environment.
This is not a task for science alone, but for us all, for every citizen in the land and for every scientist as well.
There is a universe of problems to be mastered so our world can be made more livable for our children.
The stature of the scientists we honor today gives me great confidence that science will do its part.
We have come here to the East Room for this very pleasant occasion. And I am quite pleased to be a participant in bestowing the 1967 awards of the National Medal of Science.
Thank all of you for coming here and honoring us with your presence.