Prime Minister and Mrs. Wilson, Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, Members of the Cabinet, distinguished Members of the Congress, distinguished guests:
Let me thank you first of all for coming out on a winter's night to warm this house with friendship.
It could be said that we are gathered here to welcome a Prime Minister who has come in out of the cold.
I refer, of course, to the famous English winter-ending in July and reappearing in August.
But whatever the season, sir, there is always strength and comfort in standing beside you to field the challenges of the day. It is always a good day for any man or any nation when they can claim the British as comrades in adversity, or brothers in adventure, or as partners in advancement.
But I do not want tonight to wave either the Union Jack or the Stars and Stripes. We buried the need for that with Colonel Blimp, Yankee Doodle, and other caricatures of yesteryear. When Americans talk today of what Great Britain means to us--and means to the world in which we live--we are moved by a more meaningful English voice from the past. It was Robert Browning who spoke the truth for our time: "My sun sets to rise again."
Yes, these are difficult times for Great Britain--and they are very difficult times for the United States. Yes, we have our family differences still. And yes, Britain means as much to us as she ever meant.

--Our two nations are as close as ever.

--Our two peoples are as determined as ever to master the trials of the moment and to move on to the triumphs of the future.
That is what the Prime Minister and I have spent the day talking about. We have ranged around the world, reviewing our large responsibilities, drawing on our experiences, exchanging insights, giving and getting much of value. But we always came back to one basic and unbreakable agreement.

--We want the same things for our people.

--They will not come easily or they will not come overnight, but our people shall have them if patience and perseverance can win them.
They are the simplest things to describe-but they are the hardest to achieve:

--A peace rooted in the good, firm earth of freedom;

--A world respectful of law, given to justice, hostile only to force;

--A life without the torment of hunger, ignorance, and disease;

--A higher standard of living and more opportunity for all. It will come for us. If any man doubts it, let him look at how far the Americans and the British have come already in common purpose. Let him reflect on all that we have overcome already by sharing struggle and sacrifice.
And then let him look deeply into the well of our strength--the traditions and the character that shape us.
He will come quickly to the truth that sustains us: The American and British peoples are not short-distance crusaders. If we must tighten our belts for a time, it does not leave us breathless for the next battle. We are veteran campaigners, not amateurs and we never have been quitters. We have learned to pace ourselves--to accept temporary detours and steer around them.
I have enormous confidence, Mr. Prime Minister, in the character of my own people, in their ability to understand and master trial. I am very proud to place equal faith in your people, in their characteristic courage and fortitude. I say with them, and I say to them, using the slogan of the moment: The American people are backing Britain.
The greatness of nations, the size of their global role and influence--these laurels are not earned or held by the trappings of power alone.
Ultimately, nations can only lead and leave their mark if they have the power to attract and to instruct by example. The rank and worth of nations are decided, finally, by what pushes upward and outward from their roots--the character of citizens, the value of ideals, the quality of life, the purpose of a people.
What a magnificent opportunity for the people of Great Britain!
Character--ideals--culture--purpose. The world already knows them as unmistakably British qualities, as the benchmarks of civilized life, as standards of decency and development that surpass and survive the importance of any single epoch.
The new and struggling states of the world can gain much from these gifts of British example. The older nations can also learn from them, and can count on them for security and for progress. Britain itself will continue to build on them
--in British education, for example, where a revolution of learning and opportunity is already underway; and

--in British technology, where the native skills of an inventive and industrious people are establishing a new "workshop of the world."
Oh, there is so much, Mr. Prime Minister, that is waiting for our peoples on the road ahead.
The confidence and purpose that we show to the world will always be a reflection of our own relationship. I want it always to have the importance and to have the meaning that that great President of ours, Franklin D. Roosevelt, gave it more than a quarter of a century ago, when he welcomed King George VI to this house.
"I am persuaded," he said, "that the greatest single contribution our two countries have been enabled to make to civilization, and to the welfare of peoples throughout the world, is the example we have jointly set by our manner of conducting relations between our two nations."
It is a grand toast still. I renew its promise now, Mr. Prime Minister, by offering it as a tribute to you and to your people.
The thing our people want most tonight, Mr. Prime Minister, of course, is peace in the world. As you and I pursue it, I think we are entitled for a moment to have a little peace of mind--even a little music while we work.
The songs you will hear tonight have been challenged in some sections of the press today. When I heard that on my morning radio, I thought: "Well, there they go again, always wanting me to dance to their tune."
But I am a man who really, after all, loves harmony. I was ready to believe that Mr. Merrill and Miss Tyler were actually trying to maintain the balance of payments in their choice of songs tonight by paying you a compliment "On the Road to Mandalay," and paying me a compliment--"Oh, Bury Me not on the Lone Prairie."
I was ready to believe it until I had some Senator say to me this morning: "Well, what have they really got to sing about anyway?" I think that should settle the matter. If it doesn't, Mr. Prime Minister, I am prepared tonight to keep peace at any price. You sing "God Save the Queen," and I'll sing "God Bless America."
Let us now drink to lasting harmony between the best of friends--the British and the American peoples.
Ladies and gentlemen, Her Majesty, The Queen.