Mr. President:
In the language of diplomacy, our meeting this morning is called an "official visit." But if the weather that you brought with you continues, I think we should call it an "official picnic."
It was about this time last year that it was my pleasure to visit Uruguay for the historic Punta del Este conference.
It was there that the leaders of Latin America and the United States reaffirmed the historic pledge of the Alliance for Progress: "to bring our people accelerated economic progress and broader social justice within the framework of personal dignity and political liberty."
You and I, Mr. President, together with our fellow Presidents, resolved "to achieve to the fullest measure the free, just, and democratic social order demanded by the peoples of this hemisphere."
It is very clear that there has been progress in Latin America toward the goals of social justice during the 1960's. Insofar as these goals have been approached in many nations, those who love freedom take new heart from their example. Insofar as they have not yet been achieved, those who fear for freedom have even greater cause to spur their efforts.
It is also clear that there has been progress in Latin America toward the goals of economic prosperity--but I think we all know, not near enough progress. The vast resources of a great continent are just now beginning to really be tapped.
Your country, Mr. President, has made an impressive beginning toward regional growth--with the great hydroelectric plant, whose energies you will share with Argentina and Brazil, with the Trans-Chaco Highway which will help join the peoples of several nations in new communications and new prosperity.
The Alliance for Progress is helping to bring social and economic hope to millions in Paraguay and to the other countries of the hemisphere. We are proud to be partners in this effort that is being made in this hemisphere for these peoples.
You are welcome among us, Mr. President, and I look forward to our discussions together.
The first day of spring gives us a wonderful excuse to meet. If anyone from the press should ask us what we discussed we can always answer, "Well, first, we talked about the weather."