President Stroessner, Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, Justice and Mrs. Brennan, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Johnson and I were very happy to be able to welcome two visitors this morning--very important visitors: President Stroessner and the first day of spring.
I think it is appropriate, though, Mr. president, for me to put in a word here and warn you and caution you about our Washington climate. The political winds blow very strong around here. I have observed in the last few days that it can turn very chilly, very suddenly. A little reassessment will change the entire course of these things.
One famous American humorist, Mark Twain, must have been thinking of Washington when he once said: "In the spring, I have counted 136 different kinds of weather inside of 24 hours."
Mr. President, that is particularly true of Washington in election years.
Just last week, we had a new weather front move in very suddenly. This one came from up on the Hill of the United States Senate and caught some people just standing out in the cold. They had to start running just to keep warm.
But we, Mr. President, are very glad that we can offer you our warm hospitality here in this first house of the land tonight. I know you will agree with me that all of us can learn much from the family of Latin American nations. They are a family of nations that have learned to live together and to live in peace together.
There has been no fighting of any real significance among them for more than a quarter of a century now. Mr. President, this is the trend that should unite all of the continents in a common cause. This thing we call peace is a thing that we want most. It can be the contagious spirit that excites all mankind to the miracles that men can work if only men can learn to work together in trust--and in friendship--and in peace.
Mr. President, your administration's motto is "Peace and progress and work." I share your very deep conviction that there can be no lasting peace without genuine progress.
All men of all faiths want peace. But there are different kinds of peace; men have different judgments about the better ways to obtain peace.
The great Prime Minister of Great Britain thought of one way to get peace--Mr. Chamberlain---but he was disillusioned.
Another Prime Minister, Mr. Churchill, thought of another way to get peace. As a consequence, many men had to pledge their lives, their blood, and their treasure.
But now it has been more than two decades. I think it has been confirmed in the eyes of history that a quick peace, an easy peace, is not necessarily a just peace-and a peace with honor that will last.
Frequently you can lose more lives with a phony peace than you can with a just one.
So, Mr. President, I know that you agree that there can be no genuine progress without peace in the world and without a fair reward for hard work. That statement will stand emphasis in this country--and in other countries in the world today. There can be no assurance of a fair reward unless people can share fully in all the aspects of their national life.
Mr. President, I have been thinking of your visit since we were together in Punta del Este and since the unity and peaceful nature of the nations of the Western Hemisphere was brought together there and we resolved to unite.
The United States tonight stands eager and ready to encourage such developments as are contained in your administration's motto throughout Latin America.
Mr. President, we take great pleasure, Mrs. Johnson and I, in welcoming you to this house as a leader who is trying his best to speed the growth of his nation and who, I have observed, is making contributions to the progress of this hemisphere.
As your representative of your country sits on the Security Council of the United Nations and works in his own way every day to try to better humanity, the American people take this opportunity to express to you, and through you to him and your people, our gratitude for his conscientious approach and his dedicated effort.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask all of you to join me in a toast to President Alfredo Stroessner and particularly to the good people of Paraguay.
[Following the toast the President continued speaking, as follows:]
Mr. President, when I was a young man in grade school one of my first declamations that I had to memorize contained the phrase that "The most beautiful vision these eyes ever beheld was the flag of my country in a foreign land."
One of the greatest honors that any citizen of the United States can have is the privilege of wearing a uniform of his country. The greatest honor that the President can bestow upon any man who wears that uniform on behalf of this Nation is the Medal of Honor. They come few and far between. They are given only to the most gallant and the most courageous and the most dedicated who have demonstrated in battle their love for freedom and liberty.
Tonight, Mrs. Johnson and I are privileged to have among us the parents of a young man who wore that uniform and wore it with pride and distinction and who never had a chance to see that Medal of Honor because he gave his life in order that we might live-just as this man [indicating portrait of Lincoln ] gave his life in order to preserve the Union.
I think it would be quite appropriate and I would ask that each of you join me in standing and paying silent tribute to 2d Lt. Robert J. Hibbs of 316 West 18th Street, Cedar Fails, Iowa, whose father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Hibbs, are our guests here this evening.
Lieutenant Hibbs was awarded the highest decoration this Nation can give posthumously on January 26, 1967, for service above and beyond the call of duty for us.
Mr. Hibbs, will you and Mrs. Hibbs stand, please.