LAST YEAR I withheld my approval from a D.C. crime bill. In my judgment, that bill would not have served the people of Washington as an effective crime-fighting weapon. Moreover, it would have seriously invaded individual rights.
I have given the most careful consideration to the bill before me now. I find it in many respects a substantial improvement.
It contains provisions which will clearly help the fight against crime. --The District policeman will now be able to issue a simple citation to a person he arrests on a misdemeanor charge, instead of wasting time taking the offender to the station house.

--The city will now have a clear and forceful antiriot law.

--For the first time since the turn of the century, the District's criminal code will be given a comprehensive review.
On the other hand I must call special attention to two provisions--one virtually unchanged from last year's measure, the other modified.
The first specifies minimum sentences for certain crimes. As I pointed out last year, minimum sentence requirements are a backward step in modern correctional policy. They deprive our judges of the discretion-traditional in our system of law--to fix sentences on the basis of an individual's record and character.
The second provision allows 3 hours of questioning by the police before the arrested person is taken to a judicial officer.
The effectiveness of this provision will depend on the quality of its administration and the spirit of fairness with which it is carried out. In our system of government, statements taken from an accused can never be a substitute for careful and painstaking work by law officers.
In the last session of the Congress, I recommended a Safe Streets and Crime Control Act to help local communities meet their local responsibilities in fighting the causes of crime. This measure demands the most urgent attention of the Congress upon its return.
That measure emphasizes what we all know--crime is a local problem.
That is true in the District of Columbia, as in every other city of this land.
The bill before me today has the support of the mayor and the administration of the city of Washington.
I am signing this bill in the belief that their careful attention to all its provisions will assure an effective campaign for the public order.
I am confident that if the administration of the law reveals the need for change, that need will be reported--and subsequently met.
No more serious domestic problem faces America than the growing menace of crime in our streets.
I hope the Congress in the next session will address itself to the business still undone:
--Strict gun control legislation to keep firearms out of the wrong hands.

--Higher police salaries for which funds have already been appropriated. I hope that the Congress will also look beyond the Capital City to the problem of crime in all cities.
The will to solve this problem must engage us all. Public order is the structure on which any society grows and prospers.
The bill I sign today recognizes the seriousness of the problem and affirms America's intention to win this fight.