Mr. President and Mrs. Diaz Ordaz, Mr. Secretary and Mrs. Carrillo Flores, Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, Secretary and Mrs. Rusk, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It has been 8 years since a Mexican President visited here in the White House--too long an interval, by any standard. We have met frequently in other places--at Los Pinos, in ceremonies along the border, at my home in Texas. But the White House is the real home of all Americans. When our friends come here, they come, symbolically, into every American home. And no one could be more welcome in the American home tonight than our neighbor, Mexico.
I should warn you, Mr. President, that there is in our midst a countryman of yours--whose popularity is such, that if he were to run for public office in either country, he might retire both of us to private life. It is our good fortune that Cantinflas prefers to make fun of presidents, rather than run against them. When he does appear on the political scene--as Henry Gonzalez can testify--the effect simply is overwhelming.
With all due respect to Senor Cantinflas and his fellow actors, Mr. President, I think you and I know that there is at least one significant difference between being a president in the movies and actually having the job. As one of our own American comedians, the late Will Rogers, used to say frequently: "Spinning a rope is always a lot more fun when your neck ain't in it."
Mr. President, the United States and Mexico are showing the world what good neighbors really can accomplish.
Our common frontier extends almost 2,000 miles. It is without any military defenses. Millions of our citizens cross it each year. We have worked together to harness the waters that define those boundaries--and to relieve the suffering of our people when natural disaster has struck them both. We are partners at home; we are partners also in major undertakings abroad.
In my welcoming statement earlier today, I mentioned, Mr. President, what your great country is doing to help overcome food deficits in other parts of the world. This is a matter of great interest to the people of the United States. Our own agriculture is helping to meet the immediate needs of starving peoples. But no surplus in any one country can hope to meet the staggering needs of the future. The world can avoid disaster only through development of modern agriculture, and better crops in all countries. And here you and the people of Mexico are leading the way in the world.
Working with the Rockefeller Foundation, you have developed remarkable new strains of wheat which can produce more than twice the crop from the same amount of land. These are already in use in Pakistan and India, and are being tested in Turkey, Iran, and Afghanistan. I understand that in recent years you have concluded the largest international sales of seed wheat to be recorded by any country. You are making a major contribution to solving one of the greatest problems confronting the modern world over the next generation.

As you yourself said, Mr. President:
"All the communities which in our day struggle for higher standards of living may find in the history of Mexico a straight line of conduct, guided by our firm resolve to preserve the right of self-determination."
Mr. President, we are proud to be the friend and neighbor of such a nation. And we are very proud to have you at our table and in this house tonight--the leader of a proud and independent people, whose kinsmen have made an enormous contribution to our advance in America. May the peace and friendship which unites our nations be a symbol to others of how nations should conduct themselves with each other.
Ladies and gentlemen, to the President and to the people of Mexico.