General and Mrs. Ankrah, Mr. Secretary of State, Governor Shafer, distinguished Members of the Congress, ladies and gentlemen:
Walt Whitman once described America as "not merely a nation, but a nation teeming with nations."
"The genius of the United States," he said, "is not best or most in its executives or legislatures, nor in its Ambassadors or authors or colleges or churches, nor even in its newspapers or inventors... but always most in the common people."
The "common people" of America include Afro-Americans--whose ancestors came to us in chains.
But bondage did not break their spirit. Discrimination did not dwarf their genius. They overcame. Today, they enrich our national life and the quality of our civilization. Descendants of slaves, they have taught the world much that it knows about freedom. In song and poem--as writers, athletes, soldiers, and diplomats--in the arts, the sciences, in commerce--in our Supreme Court, our Congress, our Cabinet--every year the seeds of their new achievements are sown and the harvest of our good fortune grows.
As Afro-Americans expanded the idea of freedom in America, Ghanaians helped to bring freedom to modern Africa.
A decade ago, the Gold Coast became the independent Nation of Ghana. Following her lead, 30 other nations in Africa have since come to independence.
The new independence of Africa has echoed around the world--and because of it men today walk straighter in more than a hundred lands. This is nowhere truer than in this land, where Americans of every race watch the African resurgence with pride and interest.
Freedom brings responsibilities, as well as hopes. General Ankrah and the National Liberation Council have fearlessly faced up to these responsibilities.
They found a people that were weary in spirit, impoverished by tyranny, disillusioned by many broken promises. History demonstrates that this is the moment of truth for a nation's leaders--for it is always tempting to deal with the ruins of one tyranny by imposing another.
But General Ankrah and the National Liberation Council rejected tyranny. Like our own forefathers, they dedicated their lives, their hopes, and their sacred honor to the proposition that the only legitimate government is self-government.
They brought together a representative group of outstanding citizens and asked them to write a democratic constitution. They announced firm plans for free elections. They imposed the austerity measures required to settle their debts and restore their financial self-respect in the community of trading nations.
These are not easy steps for any nation. Nor are they always popular. But they were right and they were necessary, and General Ankrah is taking them--and retaining the firm support of his people while doing so.
Mr. Chairman, America's interest in Africa is very simple. Our interest is in seeing a community of prosperous and free nations come into being--proud of its unique heritage, and proud to be a partner in world progress. We shall help you wherever we can--and only where you wish.
Ladies and gentlemen, we honor freedom and responsibility in this house today. I ask all of you who have come here from throughout this land to join me in a toast to freedom in Africa, to freedom in Ghana, and to a champion of freedom and his gracious lady, General and Mrs. Joseph Ankrah.