President Saragat, Foreign Minister Fanfani, distinguished guests in the party, ladies and gentlemen:
First, let me, on behalf of all the American people, Mr. President, wish you a very happy birthday. We are so glad that you could be here to celebrate it with us.
Mr. President, I know that in your country it is the custom for a man to spend his birthday in the company of his family and friends. Here tonight are two members of your family and everyone else in the room is your friend.
We all wish you the good health, long life, and continued success that you so richly deserve.
When I greeted you yesterday I mentioned the great debt that our country owes to your country--that America owes to Italy--and to the millions of Italians who have helped to build America into what it is.
In our Congress--and with us tonight-are Members who are proud to trace their ancestry to your land. Some of their names have the very sound of Italy in them: Pastore and Annunzio, Daddario and Rodino, Vigorito and Brasco, Conte and Addabbo and many, many more whom I do not have the time to list, including some who roam around the White House in the late hours of the evening named Valenti and Califano.
The roster of great Italian-Americans is far too long for me to recite to you tonight, but I will mention one, Enrico Fermi. As you once were, Mr. President, he was exiled from his country and he found haven here.
Twenty-five years ago this December, at our own University of Chicago, this brilliant physicist achieved mankind's first nuclear chain reaction. It ushered in a new age. Dr. Arthur Compton, in a very guarded telephone call to a colleague, said, "The Italian Navigator has just landed in the New World."
Our conversations, Mr. President, have dealt in part with how we may maintain the peace in this new nuclear world that your brilliant countryman has led us into. I believe our talks yesterday and again today have advanced the quest for peace that unites our nations. I know that they have strengthened the historic friendship that abides between us.
Here tonight at the White House, Mr. President, I am going to ask the ladies and gentlemen who have come from throughout our land to be here with you this evening to join me as I offer a toast to a good friend and a great man: His Excellency, the President of the Republic of Italy.