Mr. President, Mr. Foreign Minister, distinguished ladies and gentlemen:
I am honored to extend America's warm welcome to our friends from Italy.
We know President Saragat as the leader of a very great and venerated nation. We know him also as a patriot who fought for freedom, who knew the bitterness of exile, and who now leads a free people to new prosperity.
As we speak here today on the White House lawn, we are being seen and heard by the good people of Italy, by means of communications satellite and a new station at Fucino.
So I have the chance, Mr. President, not only to address our welcome to you, but also to speak to your people.
I want them to know of our affection and our esteem for Italy. Italy has enriched America beyond measure; and it has earned a debt beyond repayment.
A country is no more than its people, and America has been blessed with millions of families who trace their ancestry back to Italy. They have given color, force, and vitality to our American character.
Our people are united both in blood, and by a love of beauty. The genius of your people has made Italian art and literature, music, science, and architecture a treasure of our Western civilization.
Last year, when the floods came to Florence, it was not only Italy that felt the shock of loss; it was the entire world. It was not only the people of Italy who responded; it was the people of the world. I am very proud that so many Americans played a part in helping to repair and to restore those works of man's spirit.

Because we love Italy, Americans rejoice in your country's unprecedented prosperity, and the well-being it is bringing to your people. The remarkable recovery that has marked your economy in the past few years has established Italy as a strong partner in the European community. It gives convincing evidence of the energy and the skills that are characteristic of the Italian people.
The interest our two peoples have in each other is very real. Last year, 613,000 Americans toured Italy, and nearly 45,000 Italians visited America. I hope thousands more Italians will come to visit us in America. Each visit, by each person, is still another bond between us. Whether we meet as heads of state, or just as vacationing tourists, we have much to learn from each other.
For the past two decades, our nations have been joined in an intimate partnership and alliance. And you, Mr. President, were among the first to recognize the necessity of that partnership. You have always been its advocate and its champion.
You have been, in the words of Dante "... like a firm tower that never sways from the blowing of the winds."
An Italian led the way to the New World. And so has modern Italy led in the rebuilding of the old.
So, Mr. President, it is with great pleasure that Mrs. Johnson, I, and other members of our official family, welcome you here to the White House this afternoon.
We know that our talks will be most pleasant and most rewarding.

Thank you for having come.