President Banda, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished members of the Presidential party, Mr. Justice Douglas, gentlemen:
We are honored today to visit once again with the distinguished President of the Republic of Malawi.
We hope that for President Banda--as for us--this visit is like a homecoming. Dr. Banda was educated in the United States of America. He has spent a great deal of time here in our country. We are delightfully encouraged that he keeps returning despite the fact that he knows us reasonably well.
Since Dr. Banda's arrival, he and I have been engaged in a very fruitful discussion of the problems of Africa and the problems of the world. The Doctor has provided me with his insights on a very wide range of concerns. I must say to my colleagues here today and citizens of my country, that I am very pleased to find such broad agreement between us on the international questions of the day.
But while Malawi's attention is rightly focused on the future--on the problems of international development, President Banda leads a new nation--a nation which is working very hard to offer its people--the citizens of its land--a better future tomorrow.
Gibbon called independence "the first of earthly blessing." Malawi's independence is well-established. But President Banda and his countrymen realize, recognize, and know that nationhood is much more.
They know, as we learned a long time ago, that ringing speeches count very little unless they are accompanied by economic advance. They know that development is just another word for work, for planning, and for long, hard application.
They know that the future of Malawi is largely a product of a people's faith in themselves. The real test is the amount of effort that they put behind that faith.
Americans, Mr. President--as you know--understand these truths. We, too, are a very young nation. We, too, faced an uphill economic fight in the early years of our independence.
I am reminded of an observation of one of my predecessors in the Presidency, President Grant. The Pilgrims, he said, found they had to make a living in a climate "where there were nine months of winter and three months of cold weather .... "
Of course, I realize that this does not precisely describe your problem.
But our challenge, Mr. President, in many ways is very similar to the challenge that you face. It is this experience which has taught us a lesson that you know well. That lesson is that the ingredients of economic growth are not just physical resources, not just a good climate, not just fertile soil.
The critical elements are people--human beings--their dreams, their application, their dedication, their persistence.
I know that the people of Malawi--and their distinguished President--have these qualities in abundance. How do I know it? We broke ground for a pulp mill in the last hour and we built 300 miles of highways already.
So my good friends from throughout the Nation, particularly from the State of Indiana where the distinguished President went to school, the State of Ohio--represented here by Senator Young today--where the distinguished President took his education, I ask all of you to rise and join me in a toast to our most honored guest, Dr. H. Kamuzu Banda of the Republic of Malawi.