Prime Minister and Mrs. Holt, Members of the Cabinet, members of the diplomatic corps, Members of Congress, members of the press, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Tonight we are fortunate to celebrate not one, but three very welcome visitors-the Australian Prime Minister and his lady, and the first day of June. They make a very warm and happy combination.
The Prime Minister and I have spent a very fruitful day with each other. We have been doing what comes naturally to each of us--talking.
Now, this evening, we have joined you at the table, if only to demonstrate a first law of politics: Man does not live by words alone.
Prime Minister Holt, you and your gracious lady make this house a very happy one tonight. After dinner, we hope to repay you with some entertainment down the hall in the East Room. I think you will feel at home there. It is the room where we Americans indulge in something very close to an Australian blood sport--but here in America, we call it a press conference.
On those occasions, Mr. Prime Minister, I am often reminded of you for another reason. There always seems to be a boomerang loose in the East Room.
So that is one private bond between us. It gives personal strength to the public ties that unite our two peoples. History already records our affection and our trust--and the partnership and alliances they invigorate. It will someday record what the casual, the cynical, the doubting, the shortsighted, or the impatiently critical may miss. That is our shared success in helping to build a secure, stable, and prosperous new part of the world--the New Asia.
The nations of free Asia--many of them new to independence--have already turned a corner. They are determined that aggression will not turn them back--and, Mr. Prime Minister, so are we.
This climate of hope owes a great deal to an Australia that offers Asia an example of what freedom can mean.
The free Asian need only look south to see his tomorrow. He will see an Australian Government, led and directed by a competent management, elected by the people, and devoted to the people's interests.
He will see the free and vigorous Australian people--whose living standards are among the highest in the world--who share widely in their nation's wealth--who hardly know any poverty at all and who are virtually each and every one of them employed--who have the highest rate of home ownership to be found anywhere in the world.
All Asia can see hope when they look at this happy land--a land where government and private industry put the fruits of the earth to increasing good use for all, with the help of Ed Clark.
As the Ambassador said to me for the last 10 days awaiting your arrival, "Let us all look to tomorrow--and when we look to tomorrow, let us look to Australia."
Let us honor the shining record and the promise of our good friends and our good partners--the Australians.
Tonight, to those few we could crowd into this room--and this is one dinner where we didn't get any rejections--I ask each of you to toast one of their bravest and one of their best--the Prime Minister of Australia.