Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Wilson, distinguished members of your party, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. Prime Minister, your visit here this morning maintains a tradition that was begun by two great statesmen representing our countries.
One was a great Englishman. More than a quarter of a century ago, he had this to say:
"It is not given to us to peer into the mysteries of the future. Still I avow my hope and faith, sure and inviolate, that in the days to come the British and American people will for their own safety and for the good of all, walk together in majesty, in justice and in peace."
That was Winston Churchill. He spoke to the Congress of the United States only 19 days after Pearl Harbor.
I have never forgotten those words. Nor have I forgotten others spoken just 4 years earlier by a great American, who said:
"If we are to have a world in which we can breathe freely and live in amity without fear--the peace-loving nations must make a concerted effort to uphold laws and principles on which alone peace can rest secure.
"Those who cherish their freedom and recognize and respect the equal right of their neighbors to be free and live in peace, must work together for the triumph of law and moral principles in order that peace, justice and confidence may prevail in the world."
That was Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He and Winston Churchill struck a common theme of peace and justice. They pledged our countries to a common commitment which we have honored ever since.
So we come here today in another time of trouble, when peace and justice are again in the balance. It is on occasions like this that the counsel of old and trusted friends is most welcome.
Mr. Prime Minister, we are so happy to have you and Mrs. Wilson and your party with us. We look forward with anticipation to a constructive meeting--a pleasant exchange of views on the future of our countries and the future of the world.
We know that your coming here is pleasing to the people of our country. We hope your stay will be a pleasant one.