Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Holt, Ambassador Waller, Mrs. Waller, Australian friends, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Johnson and I are very happy that you and Mrs. Holt could join us here today for the beginning of what I know will be a most pleasant and enjoyable visit.
At the Manila Conference last fall, we, and the leaders of five other nations of Asia and the Pacific, proclaimed some goals that we felt all of our peoples could aspire to--to be free from aggression; to conquer hunger, illiteracy, and disease; to build a region of security, order, and progress; and to seek reconciliation and peace throughout this great region.
We are ready, Australia and the United States--and all of the nations of the Asian and Pacific region--to vigorously pursue those goals with all the strength and all the determination that we can muster. We are ready to reshape the future of the peaceful and secure Asia that is to be.
But today we fight shoulder to shoulder with our Vietnamese, Korean, Thai, Filipino, and New Zealand allies. We fight not because we like to, but only to insure the right of a small nation to make its own future and to have its own people determine what that future will be.
Tomorrow we shall work to build and to repair what has been broken, to make the harvest larger, and to make the future of all men brighter.
We shall do it with the power of electricity--not the power of bombs. We shall do it with tools--instead of tanks. We shall do it with teachers, doctors, and technicians.
We know--you and I--that this is going to be done, for we know that it has already been done in both of our countries.
Your country, the great land of Australia, has only just begun. Ahead of it lies the promise of rapid growth, of ever-increasing prosperity. Each day, almost, I seem to see • where you are discovering new sources of wealth, new buildings are rising up in your growing cities, new factories are open to make needed goods and to provide jobs.
Australia, I know, stands ready--as does the United States--to try to help others move down the path that we have trod from very simple and very hard beginnings to strength, independence, and wealth.
But these things will not come and they cannot come, unless there is a security, a dignity, and an opportunity. And security will never come to Asia unless there are men of courage and men who are prepared to stand up and resist when the aggressor moves in to steal, and to kill, and to conquer.
This is what a man whom we both admire so much once said--Winston Churchill. This is what he meant, when he declared: "Courage is the first of human qualities, because it is the one quality that guarantees all others."
The brave men who fight today wearing our uniforms--your men and ours and our other allies--struggle there to make all else possible. And we know that they will succeed.

Mr. Prime Minister, we take a great deal of pleasure in again welcoming you to this Capital City and to this country of ours.
I welcome you as a brave leader, as a longtime and a very loyal friend, and as a wise statesman.
I repeat, again, for Mrs. Johnson and my family, we are so glad that you and Mrs. Holt are here,