Mr. Commissioner General Dupuy, Secretary Martin, Premier Johnson, Ambassador Ritchie, Mayor Drapeau, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is always a great pleasure for me to visit Canada. Your magnificent EXPO '67--and knowledge that this is your centennial anniversary-serves to heighten my interest.
My first trip outside of the United States after I became President was to visit Canada. That was to Vancouver, where we met with Prime Minister Pearson to proclaim the Columbia River Treaty.
We came to conserve the water resources of our great continent--and so naturally that day it was pouring down rain.
It rained so hard, in fact, that I never delivered the speech that I had prepared for that occasion. But I hope you won't worry. While the temptation is hard to resist, I'm not going to deliver that speech here today.
I well recall some words your Prime Minister spoke to me on that rainy day in Vancouver, more than 2 years ago. He told me then:
"... I assure you, Mr. President, that had you landed at our most eastern airport in Newfoundland, 5,000 or more miles away, or at any place between, our welcome to you would have been equally warm both for yourself and as President of the United States..."
You have focused the eyes of the world on the theme of your exhibition: "Man and His World." We hope that, among other lessons to be learned here, will be this: that proud and independent peoples can live peacefully side by side, can live in peace and partnership as good neighbors, that they need not waste their substance and destroy their dreams with useless quarrels and senseless, unconstructive conflict.
We of the United States of America consider ourselves blessed. We have much to give thanks for. But the gift of providence that we really cherish is that we were given as our neighbors on this great, wonderful continent, the people and the nation of Canada.
So we are very delighted to be here. We are so glad that you invited us. We thank you very much for your courtesy.