Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Sato, Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Tonight we open our hearts and our home to two friends from a great neighbor of the Pacific.
The first Japanese mission to America arrived here more than a century ago--at a time of great conflict and discord in the United States.
Civil war threatened. A fierce election raged. In February of 1860, a candidate whom they called "the prairie statesman" dosed a speech in New York with a call for national courage.
"Let us not be frightened from our duty," said Abraham Lincoln, "by menaces of destruction to the Government, nor of dungeons to ourselves. Let us have faith that right makes might, and... let us... dare to do our duty as we understand it."
In that speech--and really in all of his life--Abraham Lincoln gave us a faith that no time or crisis can ever kill. It took time and a great deal of patience but Lincoln won peace at home and saved the Union. It is taking time and patience today to try to win peace in the world. But it will be won if we have the faith to uphold Lincoln's first principle.
All men must know what it is to be emancipated: to be emancipated from hunger, from sickness, from want, and from fear of aggression.
The hope that Asia will come to know this freedom, Mr. Prime Minister, is much stronger today than it was when you last came here to see us. In great part the nations of Asia are now beginning to realize the importance of working together to try to develop that part of the world.
You said this morning here when you spoke in the White House Garden that the need for us to work together to that end has never before been greater. We must look beyond the dangers that we all face in Asia now, to the day when our trust in each other--when our common sense of responsibility to all humankind--will finally open the road to peace, to stability, and to prosperity for all humanity.
America welcomes a partnership in responsibility. It is good to go forward knowing that as we share an ocean, Mr. Prime Minister, we also share a duty.
We know that that road is not going to be an easy one. The road of responsibility really never is easy. But let us, Mr. Prime Minister, take courage from Lincoln's words, when he said to his Cabinet in that other tragic period:
"I am here, I must do the best I can, and bear the responsibility of taking the course which I feel I ought to take."
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me in a toast to the partner of our hopes--Japan and His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor.