Your Majesties, Your Royal Highness, Mr. Secretary, Ambassador and Mrs. Goldberg, distinguished guests, my friends, ladies and gentlemen:
Your country, sir, has a romantic reputation. It is confirmed by an unusual bond between our two nations.

We have today diplomatic relations, I believe, with 110 other nations. But only your country, Your Majesty, in effect, has two American Ambassadors.
Our official representative is the charming and talented Carol Laise. She loves Nepal.
Our unofficial representative is Ellsworth Bunker, a very wise and skillful man who served earlier as our Ambassador to you. He also loves Nepal.
Ambassador Laise and Ambassador Bunker were married this year in your capital. Their union is our good fortune--and yours--and theirs.
It is also a union that is unique in the diplomatic history of America. And our State Department has not been the same since.
I understand, confidentially, that Secretary Katzenbach has had now to take on extra duties--as department marriage counselor.
And Secretary Rusk has had some interesting proposals, too--though none of them has yet come from Hanoi.
If we pay you double tribute, Your Majesty, with the services of two outstanding Americans--you more than acknowledge and repay us with your friendship and example.
Every American finds inspiration in the new spirit of your country--and in your people's timeless devotion to independence and to pursuing peace.
Yours is a romantic country, yes. But you touch our hearts in new ways today. You are a nation launched on the romance of modernization--of man filled with the love of life and challenge--of men raising up, of men pushing forward, of men reaching out for new decency and greater dignity.
Your leadership, sir, has been the spark to that awakening. Your vision has seen that independence is but the gateway to security. Men must first and always be secure from their true enemies--the ancient enemies of all of us--ignorance, hunger, disease, and fear.
Sir, you have determined to drive them out of your kingdom. You are already succeeding. You will know final success because your children will know better how to meet the challenges that come to them.
In 1951, you had only 321 primary schools in all of your nation. Today you have not 321, but 5,600.
In 1951, there were only 9,000 children in the schools of your nation. Tonight there are 380,000.
That is success--and more. For every child is the seed of another and larger success.
This day, Your Majesty, marks the start of a great Hindu holiday in your country. I think it is appropriate for us to celebrate that holiday with you--by wishing that all of your children, all of your seeds, grow up tall and strong in the light of learning. No leader could do more for his people; no leader could leave them with a brighter legacy.
Let that be our toast here tonight. The leaders in our Government, the Majority Leader, the Members of the Senate and the House who have come here, the representatives of the Cabinet, our distinguished Ambassador to the United Nations--let us all join tonight in celebrating the future of a very proud people, a brave land, and a wise ruler.
Ladies and gentlemen--His Majesty, the King of Nepal.