Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Kiesinger, Mr. Vice Chancellor, Mrs. Wentzel, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Johnson and I welcome you to this house tonight on your first visit as Chancellor.
While preparing this toast, Mr. Chancellor, I asked an aide to find an appropriate phrase from an illustrious German leader. He came back a few minutes later with the following words of Bismarck: "Not by speechifying and counting majorities are the great questions of the time to be solved .... "I stopped him right there. It was obvious that neither he nor Bismarck had very much experience in running for office.
Mr. Chancellor, we are so honored and so pleased that we can have your charming daughter as a resident of our Capital. We are very much in your debt for the extremely able service that is rendered to our Government-and to your country--by your most unusual and competent Ambassador, Ambassador Knappstein and his delightful wife.
Mr. Chancellor, our talks today were immensely valuable to the peoples of our two countries. I deeply appreciate your coming here and counseling with me, and the good advice you gave me this morning which was both candid and understanding. This is a means of better and stronger relations between our two countries.
Germany's vitality and eminence among all of the world's democratic nations today is clear to all knowing people. Mr. Chancellor, we feel that your own contribution to its progress has been indispensable. The German people have every right--indeed, an obligation--to be quite proud of the very unusual accomplishments and achievements that have been theirs in recent years.
I should like for you to say to your countrymen that we find both pride and comfort in our friendship with your people. We look forward to our continuing partnership in the great tasks that will face all of us in the months and years ahead.

The goals that we all seek together are quite clear. There is little difference between them. We all want a stable Europe, a world at peace, and freedom for all men to better the quality of their lives. Charting the paths to those goals is going to be exacting and require the very best that is in all of us. It will test our patience, our tolerance, and our understanding.
Borrowing a quotation from one of your great poets, Goethe, we shall proceed, Mr. Chancellor, "without haste--but without rest."
Mr. Chancellor and Mrs. Kiesinger, we are very happy that you are in our city. Nothing would please us more than to know that you enjoyed your visit here, that you profited and learned something about our people, and that you would like to come back to see us sometime again soon.
So, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have come here from across the country, we want to tell you how happy we are that you could be with us and get to meet this great leader.
Now we should like to invite you to rise and join me in a toast to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany.