Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Kiesinger, Mr. Vice Chancellor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Johnson and I are delighted, Mr. Chancellor, to welcome you and Mrs. Kiesinger and your distinguished associates who have come with you to the United States. We greet you with the honors and respect due the leader of a great free nation-and with the very warm affection that we feel for close and trusted friends.
The relationship between our peoples has a long history. Our German ancestors helped to build this country of ours. They contributed much of this country's greatness. German poets and scholars, philosophers and artists, scientists and churchmen--whose work is the common property of all mankind--have truly enriched the national life of America.
In the past two decades, we have worked shoulder to shoulder to build together a prosperous and a free Europe, and a prosperous and a free Germany. And, Mr. Chancellor, together we have been remarkably successful.
Mr. Chancellor, I recall with pleasure our first meeting at Bonn earlier this year. Then, as on earlier visits to your country, I saw a great democratic nation risen from the ruins of war. I saw a free people living in prosperity and dedicated to the cause of freedom. I saw a nation pledged to protect that freedom and pledged to protect that prosperity--and those of her allies as well--through the alliance which for almost two decades has sheltered us all.
Our meetings here in the White House today and tomorrow will continue our earlier friendly conversations in Bonn. They will give us an opportunity to discuss the important-yes-the numerous problems facing our two countries, facing the alliance, and facing the world.
Yesterday's triumphs can give us heart-and direction--for today's challenges. We have stood together to secure the safety of Europe. Today we stand ready to assure its future. We here in America are ready, as well, to work with you in the great task of ending the artificial division of your country.
Though Europe remains fixed in our attentions, both of us, I know, must be aware of the very urgent responsibilities that face us in other parts of the world.
In Southeast Asia, aggression by terror and warfare tests the proposition that nations have the right to chart their own paths in peace.
Tensions now strain the stability of the Middle East.
And the oldest enemies that mankind knows--poverty, hunger, disease, and ignorance--continue to master vast areas of the world in which we live.
These are problems that constantly press all of us for attention, even beyond the borders of our alliance. They can be ignored only at the peril of our own security. For distance cannot confine them. They threaten to erode the structure of peace throughout the world.
Mr. Chancellor, I look forward with great pleasure to exchanging views and ideas with you. I hope that our talks together will reinforce the already great confidence and cooperation that exists between the American people and the German people.
We are so glad that you are here. We hope that you will enjoy your stay.