President Asgeirsson, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Foreign Minister Jonsson, Mr. Ambassador Thorsteinsson, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. President, I greet you as the latest, but far from the first, Icelander to visit these shores.
You came by air in a matter of hours. But over 900 years ago another band of brave Icelanders sailed west in longboats to discover a land they called "Vinland."
It has been alleged on very high political-rather than historical--authority that they traveled inland, settled, and voted. In fact, the distinguished Vice President, in one of his rare expansive moments, has been known to claim them as the founders of the Minnesota Democratic Party.
I haven't confirmed that from Ambassador Rolvaag, but he is here for consultation.
The land that they found was far different from the one you see today. Yet Iceland and America have a great deal in common. Both were built by pioneers, by men who journeyed into the unknown, across a forbidding sea or an uncharted wilderness. Both of our peoples came to find freedom. Both founded nations that today have a long and honored tradition of liberty and of justice.
America has the world's oldest written constitution; Iceland has the world's oldest parliament. It occurs to me, Mr. President, that experience with parliaments might help me solve some of the problems that I have today.
It is symbolic of our common history that only last week 24 of our finest young men, our brave American astronauts--the real pioneers of our day--returned from a training mission to your country. The cordial reception they received from your people reminded me of my own visit to Iceland in 1963.
I have never forgotten that visit. I learned how much Iceland can teach the world about the fruitful life of people who live in freedom:
--Iceland has the highest literacy rate in the world.

--Iceland has eliminated extreme poverty.

--Iceland has a free democratic government in which all of her citizens take part.
Iceland is known as the land of ice and fire. I saw your great snow fields and glaciers, your volcanoes, and your warm springs. But ice and fire refer not only to these. There is ice in the cold determination of your people to preserve and protect the democratic institutions that we all cherish so much. And there is fire--and a great deal of fire--always in your support of peace and freedom.
Ladies and gentlemen, Iceland and America are alike in their origins--and alike in their objectives. I should like for all of you to now join me in a toast to the President of an old country and a firm friend.