Your Excellency the Vice President of the Republic of China and Mrs. Yen, members of the Cabinet, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
There is an old American proverb that says, "An hour's intelligent conversation is worth a thousand memos."
This morning I have had the privilege of such a conversation with a wise and devoted friend of the United States, Vice President C. K. Yen of the Republic of China.
Mr. Vice President, we are delighted that you and Mrs. Yen could be with us, both for personal reasons and because your presence is symbolic of a long and cherished bond between our two peoples.
When China sought a leader for its first diplomatic mission to the West a hundred years ago, it chose Anson Burlingame, the first American Minister to reside in China's capital, as its trustee. Our relationship has grown more intimate, more meaningful, over the intervening century.
Our countries are joined by a treaty of mutual defense. But our alliance goes far deeper. It is an alliance that has been tested in times of war. It has been tempered by our struggle against forces that would have destroyed both of us.
We were loyal to that alliance then. We are loyal to it today.
We are firmly committed to the defense of Taiwan, and to upholding your rights as a member of the United Nations.
Mr. Vice President, we in America admire what you have done to bring economic prosperity to Taiwan. We are proud to have worked with you.
--Taiwan's land reform program is outstanding in Asia--a model for countries around the world.
--In the past 15 years you have doubled your per capita gross national product so that your people now enjoy one of the highest standards of living in all Asia.
But the Republic of China has gone far beyond any selfish concern with its own fortunes--you have helped other countries to help themselves.
As valiant soldiers in the war against hunger and want--the war on which the future of civilization depends--farmers and technicians from Taiwan have traveled to other countries, other continents, to offer help, knowledge, and technical ability to less fortunate peoples.
Mr. Vice President, I have witnessed some of these miracles with my own eyes. I hope that your visit here will further encourage your people--and will give us the opportunity to, in part, try to repay the warm hospitality which Mrs. Johnson and I enjoyed in our visit to your country 6 years ago.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to please join me in a toast to the President of the Republic of China, and to lasting friendship between the Chinese and the American peoples.