Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Humphrey, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mr. Vice President, you will see here this morning, assembled to greet you, a large part of the Government of the United States, as well as many of our most distinguished private citizens.
We have with you here the Cabinet, the Under Secretaries, the heads of many of the most important agencies. We have the Speaker, the Majority Leader, and other Members of the leadership in Congress, as well as many of the leading Members.
Their presence here this morning speaks, more eloquently than any words of mine, of the importance your country attaches to the mission that you and your charming wife have just completed.
For more than 2 weeks now you have been the authentic voice of America in the council halls of our European allies.
You have told both the leaders and the peoples of seven friendly nations that America is still the daughter of Europe and that we intend to continue doing our share as we pursue our common destiny.
You have also carried to them, with great eloquence and ability, our conviction that peace, like freedom, is indivisible. Neither the New World of the Americas nor the Old World of Europe can ever hope to fulfill either its dreams or its ambitions, until the ancient world of Asia has become a full and equal partner in the forward movement of men.
No one knows better than you, Mr. Vice President, that this conviction lies at the very roots of American policy in Vietnam, and throughout Asia. I believe that that conviction and that policy are much clearer today in the minds of our friends in Europe, because you and Mrs. Humphrey were there to personally express it to them.
During these past 2 weeks, you have been more than America's spokesman: You have also been America's eyes and ears. You left here bearing an American message to the people of Europe, and now this morning you return with Europe's message to the people of America.
Within a few hours, I expect to depart on a similar mission to our friends in Latin America.
Between us, we will then have shared within a few weeks a degree of consultation and discussion with other nations that is unequaled--so far as I can recall--in American history.
There is good reason for these consultations. I think it was very well expressed during your visit to Europe.
"The essence of statesmanship," you said, "is not a rigid adherence to the past, but a present and probing concern for the future."
We have that concern.
We hope that others share it.
We seek their advice and recommendations, as earnestly as we ask them to consider ours.
In all of this, Mr. Vice President and Mrs. Humphrey, you have played a profoundly important part. You have served as a bridge for better understanding--and better understanding among nations, in this nuclear era, is really the best hope of mankind.
Mr. Vice President and Muriel, we welcome you home. We were very proud of you. We followed you every step of the way. We are so glad to have you back.
And now you can pick up for the next week some of the problems here that I will leave with you.