Mr. President, Mrs. Sunay, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Mrs. Johnson and I are especially happy to see you, Mr. President. Your presence in America will give us a chance to return some of the warmth and the friendliness that we received from the people of Turkey on our visit to your country almost 5 years ago.
Your people won our hearts, as they had already earned the respect and the admiration of all the American people.
Our century has been greatly enriched by the goals and the achievements of the Turkish nation. More than four decades ago, the emergence of modern Turkey, under the guiding genius of Kemal Ataturk, was one of the great revolutions of our age. It remains an inspiration to all who have since won their independence or who still seek to unshackle the fetters of the past.
You have proved, by your example, that free men can create strong and independent institutions. Inscribed as a reminder to all who enter the halls of your parliament are the words: "Sovereignty belongs to the people."
Your citizens have demonstrated repeatedly their commitment to constitutional government. Your vigorous parliamentary democracy is a tribute to that dedication. You have jealously guarded your freedom of conscience and protected your independence. Free men are also natural allies.
Turkey has been one of the most active members of the United Nations. It has served on the Security Council as well as on other United Nations bodies. A member of the Council of Europe and of the United Nations Palestine Conciliation Commission, Turkey was one of the first countries to answer the United Nations' call for troops for Korea. In 1952 Turkey joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, officially committing its strength to the cause of preserving peace.
Between Turkey and the United States there is a bond, a special sense of fellowship which can be known only to those who belong to the strong fraternity of free men.
It is in this spirit that we meet here today, Mr. President. I am looking forward to exploring with you the great issues of the day and the paths we might together follow to bring greater harmony among all of the nations of the world. And, too, I am looking forward to learning more about the impressive and the exciting progress that is being made in Turkey towards a more abundant and creative life for your people.
There is a vigor and a momentum in Turkey today which your friends in America have long and enthusiastically applauded.
We know that the future belongs not merely to the strong, but to those who will labor hardest at the constructive works of peace. And, as so often in this century, Mr. President, we see Turkey leading the way.
Mr. President, we are delighted to have you and your gracious lady with us today.