Mr. President, Mrs. Sunay, distinguished guests:
This house is honored tonight by a distinguished visitor from a very famous land. A bridge between two continents, Turkey had become a melting pot of races long before the first explorers ever reached our shores. Great empires, which have left their stamp on history, have risen and fallen in this land. Its people have contributed profoundly to the arts of civilization.
But nothing in Turkey's ancient past surpasses its modern achievements.
When this century was still young, from the ashes of an empire a great new Turkish nation was formed. The remarkable energy, vision, and wisdom of a great leader, Kemal Ataturk, set his people on the path of 20th century accomplishment.
A great philosopher once said that the creator of a commonwealth must toll in one century for the benefits that his descendants will reap in the next.
Turkey has proved that we need not always wait so long. The Turkish people today are already enjoying many of the fruits of their own efforts.
They have joined the mainstream of economic progress. They are shaping events rather than being shaped by them. Their borders are secure, their democratic institutions are strong.
But, Mr. President, as the American philosopher Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, "The true test of civilization is not the census, nor the size of the cities, nor the crops, but the kind of man that the country turns out."
Mr. President, our countries are different in many ways. But I think we can both be proud that they turn out men that have much in common.
Americans and Turks--alike--are devoted to social justice, to the preservation of freedom, to democracy. Our peoples--alike--seek personal participation in the affairs of their government. Americans and Turks--alike--desire greater educational opportunities for their children, for we realize that the future belongs not to us, but to them.
Americans and Turks--alike--are seekers after a world that is free of war and strife-and a world where each of us, to the limits of his capacity, can pursue excellence.
Mr. President, your life has been spent in dedicated service to your countrymen, first as a soldier, now as President of the Republic, always as a faithful servant of your people. There is no higher dedication.
On this occasion tonight I cannot help but reminisce.
This is the anniversary of the Truman Doctrine. Twenty years ago, when President Truman called upon the American people to rally in defense of the freedom of Greece and Turkey, there was a great deal of criticism in this land about that decision.
Mr. Truman was accused of arrogance, of wanting to play "world policeman." In the words of one commentator, who is still with us, the Truman Doctrine was a disastrous entanglement in an anti-Communist crusade which could only lead to a much wider war.
Some of us refused to believe this. Indeed, one of the proud moments of my life was on May 7, 1947, when I rose in the House to support President Truman and his supposedly "disastrous" policy of containment.
In voting for aid to Greece and Turkey, I said on that day, "I do so with the hope that Russia has peaceful intentions; that she desires to live at peace with other nations; that she will cooperate in the restoration of a wartorn world; but, if it be otherwise, then I am certain as I stand here that the passage of this measure is the only course that this country can in decency take, and the only course which may avoid war."
Tonight, as we meet here in the White House, Greece and Turkey--and Korea-are taken for granted as dynamic, freedom loving nations. And I hazard the guess that in 20 years the Republic of Vietnam will similarly be taken for granted.
These things have been accomplished because the United States of America and its allies throughout the world have stood firm before the tide of aggression--and the tide has receded. And among those who unflinchingly confronted the risks and obligations, there has been--and, I think, always will be, Mr. President--a very special bond of fellowship.
We have a unique tie. For two decades our peoples have shared a vigil beside the gates of freedom--not for ourselves, but for the entire fellowship of free men; the weak as well as the strong; the timid and the meek as well as the brave. The graves of brave Americans and brave Turks in the hills of Korea tonight are an eternal testament to our comradeship.
We honor this great common tradition tonight, as we honor you. May it grow and prosper in the years ahead, as new generations, inspired by common ideals, make freedom, justice, and progress their common cause, as it has been ours.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to join me in a toast to the people of the Republic of Turkey and to their President, Cevdet Sunay.