Mr. Prime Minister, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
Among the last state visitors that our beloved President John Kennedy received in this White House were Their Majesties King Zahir and Queen Homaira of Afghanistan. They won our hearts during that visit. They reminded us that, although their country and ours are half a world apart, we are neighbors in thought and we are kindred in spirit.
Today it is our good fortune to welcome the distinguished diplomat, the professor and the journalist who heads the Government of Afghanistan.
You, sir, are no stranger here with us. You are, rather, an old and very honored friend of many in this room, and of many more elsewhere in this city and in this Nation.
There was a time, Mr. Prime Minister, when we knew little of your country, except that it was a land of adventure, a romantic land where cultures met, rich history was written, a place where spirited and sturdy men fought with pride to maintain and to keep their independence.
We know this still, but now we know a great deal more about your land.
We know today that you and your countrymen, under the leadership of His Majesty King Zahir, have set as your high goal Afghanistan's "experiment in democracy."
We know today what you are doing to develop your country. We know what you are doing to enrich the lives of all of your people.
Mr. Prime Minister, we here in America, all of us, are very proud to be associated with you in that effort.
If it would be useful to you, Mr. Prime Minister, if you think it would be helpful, we are prepared to send to your country a team of this Nation's best agricultural experts, directed by Secretary Freeman, who would be delighted to work with your specialists in the vital achievement of agricultural self-sufficiency that we both know is so very important to this and to future generations.
Mr. Prime Minister, you have come to visit with us just after the festival of the New Year in your country. That season, like the coming of spring for us, is a time of reaffirmation and rededication. It is a time when we can, together, rededicate ourselves to the great tasks that each of us, in our own way, in our own land, are trying so hard to do:
--to build a better framework of social justice for all of our people;
--to devote our energies and our resources to better lives for all of our .people;
--to strengthen the strong roots of freedom and the spirit of independence that has motivated us both throughout our histories;
--and, most important of all, to make a contribution, individually and collectively, to a lasting peace among men throughout the world.
This morning as we were talking, the Secretary General of the United Nations made public the main lines of his new proposal for a general truce and cessation of hostilities in Vietnam. He presented that proposal to our honored and most distinguished Ambassador, Arthur Goldberg, who is privileged to be with us here today, in New York first on March 14th.
On March 15th, under Secretary Rusk's and Ambassador Goldberg's direction, we promptly replied, welcoming the .proposal and noting that it contains "constructive and positive elements toward bringing a peaceful settlement of the Vietnam conflict."
We promptly told the Secretary General that we would be consulting immediately with the Government of South Vietnam and with our other allies, and that we would provide him with a full and very prompt reply. On March 15th we said that.
On March 18th Ambassador Goldberg delivered that reply. It was positive. It was definitive. It was affirmative.
The Government of Vietnam also responded constructively.
Yesterday we regretfully learned from Radio Hanoi that they were informing the world that they apparently were not prepared to accept the Secretary General's proposal. As they stated through their radio, "The Vietnam problem has no concern with the United Nations, and the United Nations has absolutely no right to interfere in any way with the Vietnam question."
We respectfully disagree. War and peace are concerns of the United Nations. They are concerns of all people.
We welcome the efforts of not only the United Nations but any nation, large or small, if they have any suggestion or any contribution they are prepared to make.
I would hope that the Secretary General was correct this morning when he said that none of the parties has categorically--categorically-turned his plan down.
We have seen over the past several years-and, yes, recently in the past several months--one effort after another to bring peace to Southeast Asia fail because Hanoi rejected it.
But, Mr. Prime Minister and honored guests, I want everyone who can hear my voice or see my words to know that this Nation will continue to persist. Deep in our history is the memory of what President Abraham Lincoln said to his countrymen in the dark days of 1861:
"Suppose you go to war, you cannot fight always; and when, after much loss on both sides, and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions as to terms of intercourse are again upon you." In Southeast Asia the terms for the relations among states were set in 1954 and 1962 by international accords. In the end they must be honored. In the end the people of South Vietnam must be given the chance to determine their destiny without external interference.
So all of our power, our intelligence, and our imagination will be devoted in the future, as in the past, to bringing that day nearer.
As we meet here in this spring, in this period of dedication, this spring of 1967, let us together pledge anew our dedication to the achievement of the objectives of social justice, devoting our energy and resources to better lives; to strengthen the roots of freedom and independence, and to making a contribution, individually and collectively, to peace among men.
Mr. Prime Minister, I have no doubt after our extended visit today, that we are joined in these objectives and in this resolve.
Now I should like to ask our friends who have come here from other parts of the Nation out of friendship and respect for the distinguished Prime Minister to join me in a toast to His Majesty King Zahir and to the great Nation of Afghanistan.