Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Vice President, Members of the Cabinet, Senator Fulbright and Members of the Congress, Governor Hughes, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
This morning I had the privilege of welcoming you, Mr. Prime Minister, to the United States of America.
Now, it is a very great pleasure to welcome you to my home.
Around us here today you will see many people who know your country well.
And each of them is a friend of Korea. Although I was in your country only a very short time, the visit last fall was one of the most memorable and the most heartwarming that I have ever known.
Mrs. Johnson and I shall never forget-and everyone with us will remember the warmth, the spontaneity, the hospitality of the Korean people. I can still hear the rustling of countless small flags--Korean and American--that welcomed us in Seoul. I can still see those schoolboy posters all along your streets and the open friendliness in the faces of those who held them.
We knew, of course, that your country was called the "Land of the Morning Calm." And we found it to be so--in the early morning, when the mists are rising over the rivers.
But it is not long before the air is filled with the sounds of men building and planting and producing, of little children reciting their lessons in the school, of the whole countryside coming awake and work being done.
I was struck by the evidence of economic growth and vigor that I saw everywhere we looked.
Koreans were working to make a better society--to insure that all of the people shared in the fruits of their economic growth.
So both of us would like to cultivate our gardens in peace.
We would like to make them bloom as they have never bloomed before--to create and to enjoy the blessings of prosperity, to enlarge the possibilities of a dignified and meaningful life.
But in our world even the most remote nations are often barred from cultivating their gardens in peace.
It is a world where peace and freedom and justice are constantly in jeopardy.
It is a world where men, if they will not stand up, may be forced to kneel.
Neither Koreans nor Americans kneel gracefully before conquerors or before aggressors.
It is a world where responsibilities are heavy for those who are willing to shoulder the burden of responsibility.
We carried that burden together--in the defense of South Korea.
We carry it together as we mneet here today--in the defense of South Vietnam.
We shall continue to carry it--until ambitious men recognize that aggression and terror are futile and outdated weapons in relations between peoples and nations.
We shall continue together because, as our great President Harry Truman said more than 15 years ago: "All free nations are exposed and all are in peril. Their only security lies in banding together. No one nation can find protection in a selfish search for a safe haven from the storm."
In going to the assistance of others--as our Korean friends know so well--America does not seek to dominate or control.
We do not seek national grandeur or special privilege.
What we seek--in cooperation with like-minded nations like Korea--is the basis for a lasting peace--a peace with justice.
Not the peace of the grave, but the peace of life--where men are free and able to shape their own future.
Today, together, we fight. But even as we do, we work together in a multitude of ways to improve the quality of the life of our own people and the life of others in the world.
And when real peace comes--as it will come--I know we shall continue to work-together and with others--to better the world we have inherited and helped to preserve.
Mr. Prime Minister, we are delighted that you are with us in our country today.
In the spirit of our deep friendship and admiration for a very brave people, I ask all of those who have come here today to join me in a toast:
To His Excellency, the President of the Republic of Korea--and to the continued prosperity and freedom of the Korean people.