Mr. Prime Minister, and ladies and gentlemen:
It is now almost 17 years since that June day when the invader struck at South Korea. For a few, time has erased the meaning of that day, and all that followed it. But for most Americans, it remains today as clear as it was to President Harry Truman when he said:
"In my generation, this was not the first occasion when the strong had attacked the weak. I recalled some earlier instances: Manchuria, Ethiopia, Austria. I remembered how each time that the democracies had failed to act it had encouraged the aggressors to keep going ahead .... I felt certain that . . . if the Communists were permitted to force their way into the Republic of Korea without opposition from the free world, no small nation would have the courage to resist threats and aggressions by stronger Communist neighbors. If this were allowed to go unchallenged it would mean a third world war, just as similar incidents had brought on the Second World War. It was also clear to me that the foundations and the principles of the United Nations were at stake unless this unprovoked attack on Korea could be stopped."
Mr. Prime Minister, the attack was stopped--and we have now had 15 years to see the results.
The Korean people, whom you so proudly represent here today, have strengthened and have developed the independence that was once so dearly bought. They have moved forward--slowly, at first, and with some uncertainty, to meet problems that seemed to defy all solution.
I remember how depressed and discouraged all of us were at the future of Korea in the darkest days of the war and I remember the prognostications and the prophecies of the cynics of that hour.
But would that we all look at South Korea today.
There is freedom of speech, and a free press.
There are free elections--and I understand you are about to have another soon.
Economically, Korea has made amazing progress.
A leading Western financial publication recently picked Korea as the developing country with "the best all-around national performance in 1966 in the world of economics and finance."
Your rate of economic growth is close to 12 percent.
You are approaching self-sufficiency in food.
You set $250 million as your export goal last year--and you reached and surpassed that goal.
The world knows what Koreans are doing with their freedom and with their independence.
And I don't mean to imply that you have solved all your economic and social problems, because we all know that you have not, nor have we. No one really has.
But the Korean economy has "taken off"-as one of my advisers is frequently fond of saying.
Korea's freedom is a consequence, above all, of Korean fortitude and courage. But the Korean people recognize that it is the result, too, of heroism and sacrifice of their friends. They know that freedom brings responsibilities, as well as rights.
So they have now begun to turn their attention from purely national needs and goals to the broader problems of Asia and the world. Korean initiative in launching the Asian and Pacific Council has been recognized and admired by all.
And today Koreans are fighting in the defense of another brave people. Once again, we work side by side together--we fight together-against aggression. Once again we shall prove that it can be turned back by the courageous determination of free men.
In peace, as in war, we have joined our efforts--in the Asian Development Bank, in cooperative efforts to improve food production, in transportation, and in education and health measures throughout Asia.
Mr. Prime Minister, our peoples are linked by the strongest bonds of friendship. They were forged in the savagery and sorrow of war. They have been tested now in the challenges of peace.
The value of this friendship is beyond words.
It is one of those benefits that comes to men and to nations all too rarely.
Mrs. Johnson and I extend our very warmest welcome to you and to all the distinguished members of your party.
I eagerly look forward to our exchange of views today and tomorrow.
I hope that this visit to our country will be one of your most pleasant, one of your most interesting, and one of the most memorable journeys among us.
We are delighted to have you. Thank you for having come.