Specialist Joel, members of your family, Mr. Vice President, Secretary Resor, distinguished Members of Congress, ladies and gentlemen, members of the press:
We have come here today to honor the courage of a very brave soldier. His was a very special kind of courage--the unarmed heroism of compassion and service to others. The conduct of Specialist 6 Lawrence Joel reflects, I believe, the role America itself must play on every battlefield of freedom.
In the face of death, in the fury of ambush, he risked his life that other men might live. Wounded twice, Specialist Joel crawled for more than 12 hours, through unceasing enemy fire to bring others of his fellow men to safety.
In those dark, dangerous hills, with the enemy only 30 feet away, he sustained the faith that our fighting men place in the medic--their constant comrade, always ready to back their courage and to bind their wounds.
Today, in this quiet American garden, we acknowledge our great debt to Specialist Joel for his great dedication in that savage action.
It is a terrible truth that suffering is so often the price of freedom. But freedom is indivisible: to protect it in distant Asia is to maintain it here in America.
The willingness of Specialist Joel to die for freedom in the remote Vietnam province of Bien Hoa indicates, as nothing else could, the willingness of his country to sacrifice, to stand, and to persist in freedom's cause.
As we salute the valor of this soldier, we salute the best in the American tradition.
Just as he cared for his fellow men, so does freedom in War Zone D, so shall we.
Just as he bound up their wounds, so shall We.
Just as he cared for his fellow men, so does all America care for those with whom we share this planet.
America, too, stands behind the fighter who is struggling to prevent subjugation; America is willing to make sacrifices in order that all men may know the joy of peace and security; America, too, is dedicated to the highest of all principles--that of serving mankind in its end!ess struggle toward a better, fuller life of dignity, devoid of tyranny.
Specialist Joel, with this medal comes your Nation's enduring gratitude. We thank you for what you have done. You stand as a symbol--reminding all of us of our continuing responsibilities as citizens and our continuing obligations as a nation. If we are worthy of your sacrifice and the sacrifice of those of your comrades, then we shall never forget them.