Your Imperial Majesty:
It is a very great honor this afternoon to welcome His Imperial Majesty once again to American shores.
He has been our firm and cherished friend for more than five decades. He and his people have inspired us by their heroic example in time of war. And they have impressed us by the wisdom of their advice in time of peace.
The most destructive war in human history might well have been prevented if the world had only listened--30 years ago--to the Emperor of Ethiopia. Mankind has seldom been offered so accurate a prophecy. And it has never paid a grimmer price for ignoring one of its prophets.
I would like to repeat a statement His Majesty made to the world in those dark days before the Second World War. "Apart from the Kingdom of God," he said, "there is not on this earth any nation that is higher than any other."
No one has ever offered a better prescription for destroying the cancer of war.
Only when this simple, moral truth is finally accepted by all the leaders of every land can we truly hope for lasting peace.
His Imperial Majesty has never raised his voice in the halls of nations except to counsel wisdom, restraint, and justice. He once described the foreign policy of his own land in these words:
"We believe that war has become too dangerous a method for solving international disputes. Man must be as wise as he is advanced. He must allow his wisdom and his commonsense to prevail over temptations that can only lead to the destruction of civilization itself . . . the only safe way for the settlement of international disputes is the method of peaceful negotiation, conducted in good faith, and with the aim of insuring peace and justice to all."
Your Majesty, I am told that in your country there is a proverb which says: "Truth, and the morning, become light with time."
Much time has already passed, Your Majesty, since you first tried to light our way toward a better, and toward a more peaceful world. I hope and believe that men are closer to reaching that long-sought destination than ever before in history. And our voyage has been guided, in no small part, by the courage, the example, and the wisdom of Ethiopia.
Your Majesty, we are greatly honored to have you with us in the White House this afternoon. We look forward with great anticipation to your visit with us in the days ahead.