Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Leader Mansfield, Mr. Leader Dirksen, Mr. Leader Ford, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
Tonight we have come here to honor three men whom we love as well as three institutions which we cherish.
A common thread runs through the careers of all three of these men. It binds together the institutions which they represent and which they speak for. That is the love of liberty.
Each of these men has passed through many trials. Each has borne the burden of many conflicts. Each has suffered the venomous abuse which often attends good men in public life.
Yet never have they retreated. Never have they for one ,moment withdrawn from the struggle. Never have they flinched from the total commitment to freedom.
It was the richness of this American earth which made all of us powerful and affluent in this land. But it was the fidelity of men like these which really made us free.
So in these turbulent hours which are to come, filled with achievement and promise, filled with crisis and doubt, the names of Humphrey and McCormack and Warren stand for tenacity of purpose and for sureness of vision.
These three men have loved the law. They have loved the human spirit. They have strengthened the institutions of Government. They have understood the demands of change.
They have served all of their fellow men. They have been faithful to a cause which endures beyond the passing generation.
I tell you no secret when I say I am very proud that I may call each of them my friend, Republicans and Democrats.
But prouder still am I that they are the friends of all the people. They have the power today. They have the voice to speak for every man.
So tonight we express our great pleasure at the honor you do us by coming here.
I should like my fellow Americans to join me in saluting these adventurers, these pioneers, these statesmen.
We are not going to ask you to take the pledge of allegiance. But we are going to remind you that it would be good for each of us, if we could truly say, unto ourselves, one nation, indivisible, united, with equality and justice and understanding.
Finally the thing which we seek most is understanding of all men everywhere-peace in the world.
So to these statesmen who have blazed a trail for human dignity in this land, I want to ask those associated with us tonight to join in a toast to the Vice President of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to the great Chief Justice of the United States.