It has been a very great honor for me and for Mrs. Nixon to host in this State Dining Room, since we have been in this house, the heads of government and the heads of state of a number of governments around the world. This is the first time that we have had the honor of hosting a group of the top members of a cabinet of a government of another country. And I should also add, that earlier in Our term of office, we had the great honor of receiving Prime Minister Sato and having him at this table.
Now we have the special group from the Cabinet of Japan here, and, on September 26, Mrs. Nixon and I will fly to Anchorage, Alaska, to welcome the Emperor and Empress of Japan as they stop there on their way to their state visit to various capitals of Europe.
It seems to me that there is a special significance in the fact that Japan is the only country in the world in which, in addition to the traditional dinner for the head of government, or the head of state, that we have a dinner for the Cabinet and also, that we have the opportunity to welcome the head of state as he passes through our country.
This indicates the very close relations, the special relationship between the United States and Japan; the relationship to which I have referred often when I have visited Japan, both as Vice President and when I was out of office, and also when Prime Minister Sato was here.
It refers also to the fact that both of our countries recognize that peace in the Pacific is essential to peace in the world and that friendly relations between Japan and the United States are essential if we are to have peace in the Pacific.
Today the fact that we have these many contacts at so many levels is the best indication that we could possibly have of the intention of both governments to have friendly and peaceful relations.
This does not mean that our two countries, being countries made up of strong competitive people, will not be competitors, but as we look at the situation, we find that we are competing in the production of products for peace. And that kind of competition and peaceful challenges in peaceful areas is good for both countries and good for the world.
And so, Mr. Foreign Minister, I can say that speaking for the members of our Cabinet who have met with you and your colleagues that we appreciate the time that you have taken to journey here to meet with us, as we have journeyed to meet with you on occasion, members of our Cabinet last year and over the past 10 years. And we also want you to know that as time goes on we realize that these close and friendly contacts, at all levels in our government, are the key to that friendly relationship which will mean friendship between Japan and the United States and which can also mean, and will mean, peace in the Pacific and peace in the world.
In looking into the history of our two countries, I found a letter that was written by Abraham Lincoln, whose picture is in this room, 110 years ago, at the very beginning of our Civil War. He wrote to the Emperor of Japan and his letter read in part that he wished many years of abundant prosperity to the great country over which Your Majesty presides.
It is in that spirit that today I know all of us would want to join in raising our glasses to the Emperor of Japan.
The Emperor of Japan.