Prime Minister Lynch, Mrs. Lynch, and all of our distinguished guests today:
A few months ago, Mr. Prime Minister, when you welcomed us so warmly to Ireland, we promised that when you came to Washington we would try to give you a real Irish welcome.
This beautiful Washington day in the springtime and this great crowd of people from all over the Washington area, and particularly the schoolchildren from the Washington area, have tried to tell you what the people of this country think of Ireland and of our Irish heritage, because tomorrow, on St. Patrick's Day, everyone in America will be just a little bit Irish, we can assure you.
And on this particular day we want you to know that you are welcome, not only in your official capacity as Prime Minister of your government. We also recall that on another occasion just 12 years ago, President O'Kelly
 came to the United States and celebrated St. Patrick's Day in the United States.
 Sean T. O'Kelly, President of Ireland 1945-59.
And we are very honored that you, as Prime Minister, would come here on this very special day and will be in Philadelphia tomorrow for the 200th anniversary of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in Philadelphia.
When we think of our heritage and of our common bonds, we think of many things. But a moment ago you were referring to the music. The first song that was played by the Marines as they marched in review was the Navy song.

As we heard the stirring Irish National Anthem, I recall at one part of it, and a part that is particularly meaningful to us here and to you in your own country, are the words "sworn to be free." That is the Irish spirit of Ireland. It is the Irish spirit that has also meant so much to America.
And it is significant to note that Captain John Barry, an Irishman of course, was the one who founded the United States Navy, the Navy which has, among all of our services, had such a long tradition of working toward that great goal of being sworn to be free.
So on this occasion, we welcome you because of the close bonds our two countries have, because of the close ties our two peoples have, and also we welcome you because on this occasion we think of what it means to be sworn to be free.
You believe that. We believe that. And together we work for that in our countries and throughout the world.