Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Wilson, all of our distinguished guests this evening:
We are very honored for the first time in this house, since we have been here in the office that I presently occupy, to welcome the Prime Minister of Great Britain.
While it is the first time for us to welcome him here in an official capacity, of course it is not the first time that he has been here. As I pointed out this morning, he has been to the United States, according to those who keep records of these things in the passport department and visa department, 21 times. He may have come in other times, but people didn't know.
He has been here at least five times officially since he has been Prime Minister, and he is always welcome, and particularly welcome tonight, because of our personal friendship as well as our political responsibilities.
I was delighted that both Mrs. Wilson and the Prime Minister approved of the musical selections tonight. As a matter of fact, Mrs. Wilson was so kind as to refer to the quality of the music as we walked down the red carpet to this room, and also to say that she was pleased that the Strolling Strings, that she had heard once before, were here again.
I think, however, the Prime Minister will note how we selected the numbers with somewhat more diplomacy than we have on other occasions--because I have heard it recorded on one of his previous visits, when his country had some monetary problems incidentally, if you have found any solution for yours, tell us how to solve ours--that the Marine Band on that occasion played numbers of George Gershwin, and the first number they played was "I've Got Plenty of Nothin'." They compensated by playing "It Ain't Necessarily So."
Tonight we are delighted that there are no monetary problems, or at least no significant ones, that needed to be discussed on this visit, and that the problems that we discussed were in the mutual interests of our two countries for peace and progress in the world.
But I would not want this occasion to pass without saying to the Prime Minister, to Mrs. Wilson, and to all of our guests from Great Britain today, and also for the benefit of our American guests--say something that I feel very deeply about the heritage we share in common.
Some of you may recall that, when I delivered a eulogy to President Eisenhower, I quoted from what I think was probably the finest and most eloquent speech he ever made, a speech at Guildhall right after World War II's great victory. Some of you around this table may have heard it. I only had the opportunity to read it.
In that speech, a very brief one of about 15 minutes, he had several memorable lines. One thing that he said that I quoted in the eulogy was, "I come from the heart of America." He also said, by implication, that he came from the heart of Britain, because he described most eloquently the common traditions that we have--the common law, a common language, and great principles for which we have fought together in two wars.
And then he said, when we think of these great principles, "the valley of the Thames draws closer to the farms of Kansas and the plains of Texas."
And so it is, as we think of our country and yours, Mr. Prime Minister, we think of those great values, those great principles which do draw us together, and I think of them also in a much larger sense. I think of my travels around the world and of those countries all around the world which have had the same heritage and which still have the common law, which still have the English language and still have--even though the colonial ties may have been completely severed or partially severe&--still have adherence to those basic principles which are yours and which are ours as well.
I know it is, of course, the fashion these days to find nothing good to say about any kind of colonialism. I will depart from that fashion by simply saying that the proud heritage that the British people have left around the world in institutions, institutions which, as President Eisenhower said, draw the valley of the Thames closer to the farms of Kansas and the plains of Texas--these great principles, these great institutions are a heritage far more important than military might or economic strength that might exist in those areas of the world because of the power that you might have.
So, speaking as an American to our friends in Britain, we can only say that we are very proud to have you in this house as representing your country; and also it gives me an opportunity to present you to our guests by indicating one area where we have departed from your custom in our own system.
The language we try to speak, not well, but we try to speak; the common law the Chief Justice tries to interpret, and interpret it all over the Nation in the same way, sometimes with some objections; but in terms of the system in our House of Representatives and in our Senate, we have departed somewhat from your system.
We think that it is quite an ordeal to go through a televised press conference in that East Room where we met you a few moments ago. I will be doing one on Friday of this week, where you stand before the press for 30 minutes on live TV, before 60 million or 70 million people, trying to answer their questions. Incidentally, I usually turn to the Vice President for my advice for the press these days.
But I want to say to our guests here that while I think that is certainly an exquisite type of political torture, to see a Prime Minister of Britain in the House of Cornmons in the question period, that is, in my view, the greatest example of intellectual acrobatics in the whole political field, and Prime Minister Wilson, whom I did see in this situation, when I was privileged to be in the House of Commons, as the first American President ever to be present as President in a session of the House, I must say that I could see why he had earned the reputation of being one of the most skilled politicians in his country, and after seeing him, I would say, one of the most skilled politicians in the world.
And so finally, I would simply say that I ask you to join me in saluting him and his country today, not simply for those personal virtues and for those political virtues, but because he represents a nation to whom we owe so much and with whom we are so proud to work together for these great principles that transcend all of the differences that we might have.
I know that you would want to rise and raise your glasses to Her Majesty, the Queen.