 
 John Quincy Adams, Andrew Jackson, Henry Clay, and William H. Crawford are all candidates for the 1824 presidential election. All are “Democrat-Republicans.”  Andrew Jackson receives a plurality of the popular vote (41%) and a plurality of the electoral college (38%). However, no presidential candidate wins a majority of the electoral college. As a result, the presidential election is inconclusive.  Crawford, Secretary of the Treasury, was the last candidate to be selected by a Congressional Caucus.  The others had been nominated by their state legislatures.
As specified in the Twelfth Amendment, the House of Representatives holds a contingent election to elect a president. Only the three candidates in numbers of electoral votes are eligible for the contingent election. These candidates are John Quincy Adams, Andrew Jackson, and William H. Crawford.
Speaker of the House and former presidential candidate, Henry Clay, formally endorses John Quincy Adams for the contingent election.
The 
 (Philadelphia) 
, allegedly from an anonymous member of Congress, alleging that Henry Clay reached a bargain with John Quincy Adams. This bargain was described as “one of the most disgraceful transactions that ever covered with infamy the republican ranks.”
A letter from 
 that he thinks the letter of 01/25/1825 is a forgery; or that the author is “a base and infamous calumniator. . .”
Adams is elected President by the House of Representatives with 54% of votes.  The Senate majority is comprised of by Jackson & Crawford Republicans;  in the House, Adams Republicans are the largest party. 
.  If the Constitution permitted, he would submit to a second popular vote.  Instead he hopes for “generous support from my fellow-citizens.”
There still remains one effort of magnanimity, one sacrifice of prejudice and passion, to be made by the individuals throughout the nation who have heretofore followed the standards of political party. It is that of discarding every remnant of rancor against each other, of embracing as countrymen and friends, and of yielding to talents and virtue alone that confidence which in times of contention for principle was bestowed only upon those who bore the badge of party communion.”
 But he retains Monroe’s postmaster general, secretary of the navy, and Attorney General (William Wirt). Generally, J. Q. Adams is very restrained in using executive appointments in a way that might build political support.
Erie Canal completed.  This was an undertaking entirely by the State of New York, but Federal officials took note of the success of the project and its revenue potential.
 Proposes broad range of internal improvements, contrary to the views of his three predecessors.  Notes that in March 1824 the Treasury purchased shares in the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Co.  Notes a study under way for a canal from Chesapeake Bay to the Ohio River. Accepts invitation to send delegates to Pan American Congress in Panama which subsequently proves controversial in the Senate.
The final date of voting in 1926 Elections.  Both Houses of Congress have pro-Jackson majorities.
, settles indemnity under the Treaty of Ghent (which ended the War of 1812). Provides compensation for “upwards of 2,400 slaves” who had been freed (“carried away”) during that conflict.  [This negotiation is noted in the State of The Union Message of 
.]  Also see negotiating “instructions” 
St. Petersburg Convention to the Ghent Treaty is Proclaimed [this event is noted in 1827 State of the Union Message.]
 Adams enumerates many surveys under way for roads and canals.  Called again for creation of a naval academy. Calls for Congress to manage the disposal of public lands.
Supreme Court Associate Justice Robert Trimble dies as presidential elections approached. 
. Andrew Jackson (Democrats) defeats incumbent John Quincy Adams (National Republicans) winning 68% of the electoral vote and 56% of the popular vote (not all states had mass popular voting).
.