Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Foreign Minister, Mr. Ambassador, our distinguished guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, you have been to this country on 10 different occasions, but it is a very great honor for us to welcome you in this house and in this historic room for the first time as Prime Minister of your country.
And we have tried to make you feel at home with the musical selections by our Army string group.
After hearing them play and hearing you compliment them as graciously as you did to me while they were playing, I thought of the War Between the States and the remark made or attributed to a Confederate general when he was asked by a private serving in the infantry for transfer to the band.
The general replied, "No." He said, "Son, what this army needs is shooters, not tooters."
Our Army, our Navy, our Air Force we consider to be part of the peace forces of the world as you do yours, and we are proud that in addition to their military accomplishments they also have other accomplishments which were demonstrated tonight for this very distinguished audience.
A little earlier today I participated in a ceremony honoring President Wilson and the living memorial that is being established in Washington in his memory.

On that occasion, I thought of his visit to Europe immediately after World War I, and particularly of what he described as the warmest receptions he received on that visit, his receptions in Italy.
I recall, too, what he said at Torino when he commented upon the suggestion that had been made by one of the Italian leaders to the effect that after World War I, carrying out President Wilson's philosophy of self-determination, that Italy should have sovereignty over Italians wherever they lived in the world.
And President Wilson responded to that suggestion in Torino somewhat along these lines. He said, "We could never agree to that, because the United States couldn't bear to part with New York."
And he correctly pointed out that New York, at that time, had more Italians than any city in Italy.
But then he went on to say something very profound and as true today as it was then: that the United States could not bear to part with the genius of the Italian spirit which has meant so much to this country in the past and means so much to it today.
Mr. Prime Minister, in this distinguished company we have gathered today you see part of that genius, leaders in the field of business, in the field of the arts, in the field of sports, all the areas which indicate achievement in our country.
I could mention so many. I could mention Enrico Fermi, of Italian background, the man most responsible for the development of the atomic breakthrough. I could mention the great leaders of business, the fact that the largest bank in the world and in the United States was founded by Italians in my home State, in California, and a representative of that family is here tonight.
I could mention the fact that in the field of sports that we, a sports-minded country, have revered many, but none perhaps in our time has reached that pinnacle of admiration that a man of Italian background, Vince Lombardi, reached when he died just a few months ago, not because he was just a great coach, but because he had character, that genius of the Italian spirit which Woodrow Wilson referred to so eloquently 51 years ago.
And, of course, I could refer, Mr. Prime Minister, to the field of politics. Here we can be completely bipartisan. We can speak of Senator Pastore. We can speak in our Cabinet of the Secretary of Transportation, former Governor of Massachusetts John Volpe, who has worked with great devotion for his country and for better relations between all nations.
What I am simply saying is that on this occasion, we thank you for coming to our country, for giving us the opportunity to express America's appreciation to Italy for what you have contributed to us, your country, what your people of Italian background have contributed to America, and also, to say, in response, that we treasure our relationship with your country in the modern day.
Italy and America are friends. We are partners together in the great Atlantic Alliance. And we recognize that in this world today, we have no better friend than Italy.

And speaking personally, I can say to this company that I have no better personal friend, as well as official friend, than Prime Minister Colombo.
After that applause, Mr. Prime Minister, you should come here and run for something.
I simply want to say that we recognize that the Prime Minister has devoted his life to the service of his country, that he now, as we do, has problems to which he applies enormous diligence and dedication and devotion, and for this we admire him. And for that reason, because of our affection for the country that he represents, for the people and the tradition that he represents, and also because of our respect and admiration for him as a person and as a world leader, I know all of you will want to join me in raising your glasses to the Prime Minister of Italy.

The Prime Minister.