President Ceausescu, Mrs. Ceausescu, our very distinguished guests from Romania, and all of our guests from the United States:
We are very honored this evening to receive the President of Romania because he is the first President of Romania ever to be received as a state guest of the United States. And we are also honored to receive him for another reason: He is the first President or chief of state of a Socialist country to be received as an honored guest during this administration.
As we speak of the relations between Romania and the United States, we often refer to the differences that we have in our social and economic systems which are well known.
But on an occasion like this, I think that all of us are reminded of those things which draw us together rather than those that drive us apart, and first is the desire on the part of the people of both countries to know each other.
I have had the privilege of visiting Romania. And I know the warmhearted people who live in that country. And I want the people of America to know the people of Romania and the people of Romania to know the people of America, because they will like each other as they know each other, and they should not miss the opportunity to know each other in the years ahead.
I know, too, that having visited Romania that we have a common interest in seeing that there is progress in both countries. And there are many areas where we can work together for progress in the economic field. And the President and I in our talks have been exploring areas where there can be increased cooperation.
We have made a great deal of progress in this field over the past year. We will make more as a result of the talks we have had on this occasion.
And a third interest we share in common is one to which Romania is deeply dedicated and to which we are deeply dedicated, and that is the right of each nation to be independent, to have its own policy without foreign domination. We want that for ourselves. We respect that in any other country, and we want it and we respect it for our friends from Romania.
And, finally, there is the overriding concern that we share with our friends from Romania and with other countries in the world to strengthen the structure of peace in the world. And we believe that the opportunities that we have had on two occasions to meet at the highest level with the President of Romania have helped to strengthen that structure of peace.
It happens that in the world today because of the divisions, there are times when the leader of one nation does not have adequate communication with the leader of another. But as I was saying to the President earlier today, he is in a rather unique position. He heads a government which is one of the few in the world which has good relations with the United States, good relations with the Soviet Union, and good relations with the People's Republic of China.
Under those circumstances it is extremely valuable for the President of the United States to have the opportunity to speak to the President of Romania to discuss the problems, not only that we have between ourselves, but also these broader world problems in which Romania, because of its special position, can make a very constructive contribution to the eventual peaceful world we all want to share together.
And so for these reasons which are basically official, but also for a very personal reason, the fact that I have known and respected our distinguished guests, the President, his wife, and the members of his party because of our visit a year ago, I know all of you in this room will want to join me in raising our glasses to the President of Romania and to the Romanian people.

To the President of Romania.