Your Holiness:
I want to express my deep personal appreciation and the appreciation also of the members of our party and of all of the American people for the words you have just spoken, and for the very generous reception you have provided for us.
Tonight after I leave the Vatican, I will be flying to sea and there I shall see the mightiest military force which exists in the world on any ocean.
Today, here in this room, we have had the opportunity to hear expressed a different kind of power--the spiritual power which moves nations and moves men.
I think that it is only appropriate to say that the conversations that we have had on several occasions--in 1963, 1967, 1969, and now today--have covered the whole range of world problems.
Your Holiness has expressed again your interest, which we also share, of working for peace among all nations, and we particularly appreciate the fact that you have noted the initiative that we have taken in the Mideast for peace in that troubled area.
You also have expressed your concern a concern we also share--for the well-being of the hundreds of millions of people on this earth who are poor, who live in lands that have very little hope. We will continue our policies of being as generous as we can in helping them, helping them so that they can help themselves.
We have appreciated also the fact that you have spoken out so eloquently for our prisoners of war, that this issue be separated from the other political issues that may be involved in the very difficult war in Vietnam.
But most important, I wish to emphasize that we appreciate the leadership that Your Holiness has given to the cause of good will between men of all races, of all religions, to the cause of peace among all men, even though those nations that they may live in may have different philosophies. We believe that such peace is possible; we work toward that end; and we appreciate the prayers and the good wishes that you have extended to us.
On this occasion, too, speaking for all of the American people, may I wish you well on your long journey to the Philippines. I know that you will get a very warm and great reception in that land so far away and yet so close to us in the United States because of our background and our history.
We remember your visit to the United States. And as we sit here today, I can only say that we hope that we shall have the privilege, if your arduous schedule will permit, of having another visit by you to the United States.
Thank you.