Mr. Prime Minister and our very distinguished guests this evening:
George Bernard Shaw once wrote that Great Britain and the United States were two countries separated by a common language. On this particular occasion, it is always customary to speak of the special relationship which exists between Great Britain and the United States, a relationship which--we referred to this morning--grows out not of simply the fact that we share a common language, although we may speak it a bit differently, but that we also have the traditions of the common law and other institutions that we have adhered to together.
But in this particular instance, I should point out that we are very fortunate that the special relationship is one that goes beyond simply semantics. It is based on something more than language and law and history and tradition. It's based on the fact that our two countries have interests in the world, interests in progress and peace and justice, all of those very simple words but which have such great meaning, which are similar and common and that we work together to achieve those interests.
Also, it is, for me, a very special privilege tonight to point out that apart from the special relationship which exists between our two countries for the reasons that I have mentioned, there is a special relationship which exists because of the personal relationship I have been fortunate to have had with the Prime Minister, our very distinguished honored guest tonight.
I have known him for almost 20 years, which is a long time in politics or in world affairs. I have known him when I've been out of office and he's been out of office. And as he pointed out this morning, now for the first time, we are both in office and together.
I should point out, too, that as we receive him tonight in this Christmas season at this dinner, that over the past 2 years, almost e years, that we have had dinners here in this State Dining Room, we have had many distinguished guests, but the Prime Minister is the first guest that I have received in the White House who was here as a guest almost a year ago, or over a year ago, when he was out of office and is now being received as a guest when he is the head of government.
And I can only say, having recounted that, that at least he's moving in the right direction.

The only painting in this room is the very famous painting of Lincoln over the fireplace. And there are so many stories and anecdotes from the Lincoln period that could be appropriate tonight, but one in particular that I think should be recounted before proposing the toast of the evening.
During the War Between the States, when the Union had an embargo on the South, the textile mills in Britain suffered greatly. And the workers of Manchester sent a message to Lincoln indicating their support of what he was trying to do.
Lincoln wrote to them in his own hand a message in return in which he said, as I recall, that whatever happened in the future and whatever catastrophe might occur in either our country or theirs, that of one thing we could be sure, that the peace and friendship between our two nations would be perpetual.
He said that and wrote that 100 years ago. There is no question tonight that when we speak of peace and friendship between Great Britain and the United States that it will be perpetual as it has been throughout this century.
The only question is how that peace and that friendship, along with the peace and friendship that we enjoy with so many of our other friends in the world who share common interests, how that can be used to achieve a greater peace and a greater friendship for all the nations of the world, a goal far away it seems at times, but a goal which we all constantly strive to achieve.
And I can only say that because of the very great respect that I have and my colleagues in this Government have for the Prime Minister, his leadership, and for his colleagues in his Government, that I have great confidence that our two nations will work together, not only for peace and friendship between Great Britain and the United States but for what we have never had in this century, a generation of peace for the whole world.
And it is in that spirit that our meetings at Chequers earlier this year and our meeting here in Washington today took place and our meeting in Camp David tomorrow will take place. I believe it will contribute to that great goal that all of us feel particularly close to during this Christmas season.
And it is in that spirit that I know that all of you would like to rise and raise your glasses in a toast to the Queen.

The Queen.