DURING the course of the introductions tonight, we have already introduced the official family.
I think it would perhaps be appropriate also to introduce the immediate personal family of the President. I think, as you know previously from the head table is the lovely daughter--Mrs. Nasta sits here. His son-in-law, her husband, Mr. Nasta-will he please stand?
And his first-born son is also here with his wife, his namesake, Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, and his wife.
And I think I would be pardoned also for one other introduction. The grandson of a former President and the daughter of a present President, David and Julie Eisenhower.
This is a special night for the United States and a particularly special night for California. All of us who live in this State are proud of our heritage, and particularly proud, as we conclude this bicentennial celebration, of the enormous contribution that has been made to California by Mexican-Americans and those from Mexico.
To represent the State of California and all the 20 million people who live here, now the first State of the Union, it is my honor and privilege to present the Governor of the State, Governor Ronald Reagan.

[Following Governor Reagan's remarks, which are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 6, p. 1139), the President resumed speaking.]
California is now the most populous State, and therefore, in certainly population terms, as well as in others, we think the first State. The State that has the longest border with Mexico is Texas.
Texans have always had a great tradition of friendship, particularly in recent years, with our friends from Mexico. It seems to me that it is, therefore, not to be something we should not have expected that the President of the United States who was a Texan, during his term of office made a very great contribution to Mexican-American friendship.
He was the host to our honored guest tonight on several occasions. He traveled often to Mexico, and one of the great achievements of his administration is that progress was made, very significant progress, in bringing our two countries, and particularly our two peoples, closer together.
We in California, and all of us in this room tonight, are honored that we have as our guest the former First Lady, Mrs. Johnson, and the former President of the United States, Lyndon B. Johnson, to speak now on behalf of Texas and all of America.
[Following President Johnson's remarks, which are printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 6, p. 1140), the President resumed speaking.]
In my position with the honor of proposing the toast to the President of Mexico, it occurs to me that I could best speak for all of you in personal terms first, in terms of the relations between our two countries diplomatically and from the standpoint of foreign policy second, and finally in terms of the record, the contribution to his country and to Mexican-American relations of our guest.
As I met those coming through the receiving line tonight, I was enormously impressed with the number of my fellow Californians and fellow Americans who spoke to the President of Mexico in what I thought was very good Spanish, and who spoke with affection of having visited so often his country and of the people that they knew from his country who lived in our country.
I thought of my own background--and it does have somewhat of a Mexican flavor. I was born in a very small town in California. Its name was Yorba Linda. I grew up on a road in California called El Camino Real. I went to school, grammar school and high school, in California, and had scores of friends who were Mexican-Americans, good friends, and who have been friends all of my life.
I like Mexican food. I like Mexican music. I know the enormous contributions that our Mexican-Americans have made to this State, not only in the past in the history but today with their vitality, their strength, their art, their culture, and above all their warmth.
And, fortunately, my wife shared my feelings about Mexico, because 30 years ago when we planned our wedding trip we went to Mexico and we have been back four times since then; each time developing a deeper affection for the country to the south and for its people.
And so, in personal terms, I speak, I am sure, for many in this room who have experiences of visiting Mexico, knowing its people there, or of knowing our friends from the south when they have lived here or have become citizens of our State or of our Nation.
I think of the relations between our two countries in an official capacity, as President Johnson has referred to them. I think of that border so long and yet one which is truly one that is not a barrier between countries, but a bridge of friendship between them over which we can cross at any time.
I think, too, of the fact that during the term of office of the man we honor tonight, a term of office which covered President Johnson's term of office, at least part of it, and also part of mine, we have seen perhaps the greatest progress in the history of our two countries in ironing out whatever differences there were, border disputes or otherwise, between our two countries.
I think of the fact that not only do we have this great long border, a peaceful border, between our two countries, but I think in economic terms of the fact that we are Mexico's best customer in the world, and Mexico is our best customer in all of Latin America.
And then I turn to the man that we honor. I know much about him because I have read of his background, his pronouncements, his speeches. He spent many eloquent years during his service as President.
He said, among other things, I believe in his inaugural address, that the prosperity of one part of his country could not be based on the poverty of another part of his country. That was the ideal that guided him as he led Mexico in an unprecedented period of economic growth, a growth rate of over 7 percent through a period of 6 years--7 percent annually.
And I think, as we think of those words, that the prosperity of one part of a country cannot be based on the poverty of another, it expresses an ideal which all of us feel should apply to every country in the world, within any country the prosperity of one group must not be based on the poverty of another. And among the countries of the world, certainly the international ideal should be that the prosperity of one nation must not be based on the poverty of others.
This is an ideal that will not soon be attained, but it is one to which we are all dedicated. It is one which the President has served for his country. It is one which President Johnson served when he served as President of this Nation and toward which we now are working. A nation in which all people can have the opportunity to move forward together toward those better things in life that we all want, and a world in which all nations and all peoples will have eventually an equal opportunity to move forward.
It is this ideal, an ideal still far away but one which we must constantly work toward, that I think the President of Mexico has perhaps summarized better than any leader in the world today.
And so tonight, as we sit in this historic room, I think of all the things that have happened here. Eighty years ago, for the first time a President of the United States came to California. Benjamin Harrison stood in this spot, the President of the United States, speaking to the people of California. And after him, President McKinley spoke in this room. And then President Taft, after he left the Presidency, and Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1935. Four Presidents have spoken in this room.
There have been other great events. The Prince of Wales---on the only previous time that [in this century] a Prince of Wales visited the United States, 50 years ago, was in this room.
So, tonight, we have a very special occasion. We have a former President of the United States, we have a present President of the United States, and we have them here with all of this distinguished company honoring the President of Mexico.
It is an appropriate room, certainly, for such an occasion to occur. And it is so for reasons that I think all of you will agree.
Our two nations should work together because we are geographically so close together with that long border between us. Our two nations should work together because we do have economic self-interests that bring us together.
But that would not explain why President Johnson on seven occasions had meetings with the President of Mexico and why I, on three occasions, already, in less than 2 years, have had meetings with the President of Mexico and where in an unprecedented occasion within 2 weeks after a meeting in Mexico we have a return visit here in California.
I would like to say parenthetically to President Johnson that I hope I will be able to beat his record in terms of meeting with the President of Mexico. And I can only say this on another subject: He needn't be concerned about those seven bad reviews. I wrote a book, too, and he will never equal my record as far as bad reviews are concerned.
But what I leave with this group tonight, as I propose a toast to the President of Mexico, is this thought: It is not because of our geographical proximity, or the enlightened self-interest of interdependent economic partners in this hemisphere, that the President of Mexico and the President of the United States should meet so often in an unprecedented way. It is because truly that we have a special place in our hearts for Mexico. We have a special place in our hearts for this distinguished leader of his country. That is what we are trying to say to the President of Mexico tonight.
We are trying to say to him, apart from geographical and economic considerations, it is because we are proud of our Mexican-American common heritage; we are proud of the fact that we do have these good relations today; and we in our hearts enjoy our opportunities to meet with our friends from Mexico.
This is a special relationship, far more important than all the protocol, the diplomatic niceties, the economic reasons that normally bring heads of state and heads of government together.
So, tonight, not for protocol only, not for geography, not for economic self-interest, but because we in this State and in this Nation feel it in our hearts, I suggest that we rise and raise our glasses to the President of Mexico.