Mr. President, Your Excellencies, all of our distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
It is a very great honor, Mr. President, for me in my capacity as President of the United States and also as a native son of the State of California, to welcome you to this State and to this Nation.
It is significant to note that it was just 2 weeks ago that you welcomed me and the members of my party to Puerto Vallarta, and the heartwarming reception we received will be something we will always remember.
For another state visit, a return visit to occur within 2 weeks after one that we had made to your country. is unprecedented in the history of our country. But that is as it should be, because the friendship between our two countries is not one that is dictated by protocol. It is one that is much deeper, much deeper and much more lasting.
As I speak of that friendship today, I think of the heritage of this Nation and of this State--the over 200 years for example-rich in the history and tradition of the State of California which we share together, Mexicans and Americans.
And as I think of Mexico and the United States, I think of the present, of the great contribution that Mexican-Americans have made to our country and are making. I think of that contribution and of the debt we owe to them--an obligation that we have not adequately fulfilled in the past and that we hope that we can more adequately fulfill in the future so that all Mexican-Americans can play their equal part in the progress of this Nation.
And on such an occasion, Mr. President, I particularly think of you as you near your term, the end of it, as Mexico's President. In the streets of Puerto Vallarta I heard the people of your country speaking from their hearts, "Long live Diaz Ordaz." The name of Diaz Ordaz will always be honored in Mexico as one of Mexico's great Presidents.
I can assure you that this reception today is meant to tell you that the name of Diaz Ordaz will always be honored, too, in the United States. Because you, as President in your 6 years, have made perhaps the greatest contribution of any Mexican President to the goal that we all want of true and lasting American friendship, with the border between us not as a barrier, but as a bridge of friendship over which we shall always cross together.

Thank you.