Mr. President, Your Excellencies, and our guests:
Mr. President, you have honored all of us from the United States with the warmth of your reception and we will take away memories of this visit which will stay with us for the rest of our lives.
We thank you for giving us the opportunity of seeing a part of your great and picturesque nation, a part that most of us have never seen before, and it makes us realize that there is so much of Mexico for all of us to see and to know, to explore. And I hope that our visit here will bring many others from America and other lands to come to this wonderful nation, to know it as we have learned to know it and to know this delightful part which has such memories for us.
Here in this place we look out upon one of the great scenic wonders of the world. And we remember the welcome of yesterday, the warm-hearted people that we saw. We look at the architecture, the old blended with the new. We realize the progress that has come here and yet what you have retained of the history, the uniqueness that has meant so much to those who have seen it for the first time. And when I hear from others who have had the opportunity to swim in this beautiful sea--an opportunity I did not have today-when I hear that here the sea is like champagne, I realize we must come back again. Como Puerto Vallarta no hay dos. [Puerto Vallarta has no peer.]
But Mr. President, in addition to all of these very great memories that we will take away, what will be particularly memorable in this visit is the historic agreement that has been reached in which we now settle all of the boundary disputes of the past and set up the procedure for avoiding any boundary disputes in the future between our two countries.
Without your statesmanship and the leadership of those in your Foreign Office, and without, also, the cooperation of those in our State Department, this could not have occurred. We congratulate and thank you all for making possible such a historic agreement. Because what this means is that from this time on no boundaries will ever divide us in our search for peace, for prosperity and freedom for the Mexican people and the people of the United States of America.
And, Mr. President, we would like to pay tribute to you for your leadership, not only of your own nation but in the cause of good relations between the United States and Mexico.
And I am very happy to announce to this assembly that the President has accepted our invitation to be the guest at a state dinner in his honor in San Diego, California, on September 3.
California, the State in which I was born, the State in which I now live, is one which owes so much to the Mexican people, the Mexican-Americans, for what they have contributed. And to have you present there as not only the guest of the United States but particularly as one of the final commemorative events of the bicentennial of California will be a historic moment for our country and for our State.
And so to the architect of progress for his own country and to peace and good relations between his country and our country, I ask you to rise and raise your glasses to President Diaz Ordaz of Mexico.