Mr. President and our guests tonight:
We are very honored to have in this house again one of the world's most distinguished leaders. I shall have more to say about him in a moment, but as I speak of him tonight, I am, as all of us will be, particularly impressed by the fact that of all of the elected leaders of the world, he has been in office longer, where there was party opposition, than any elected leader in the world.
Since there are many from the Senate and the House who respect political ability, we respect you, Mr. President. I asked the President before dinner if he had ever lost an election. He had to think a long time. He said, "The first one; but never after that." I wasn't quite so fortunate.
Mr. President, as you had noted as the receiving line came through tonight, everybody in this room either has been to Finland or had a very deep affection for your country and your people. I am one of those fortunate ones who had the opportunity to know the Finnish people, not only in America where we have such a great contribution to our society from those of Finnish background, but in Finland where I had the opportunity to visit in 1965 with Mr. John Shaheen, one of our guests tonight.
I shall always remember that visit. I shall remember it for many reasons. When you think of a country you think of it in the history books or the geography books or the news stories. Then when you go there you find the country as it really is and sometimes the reality is different from the history books and the news stories and the pictures.
I would urge all of you who have not been to Finland to go, to see it, to know it, and particularly to know the beauty of the country; the land, not just of 10,000 lakes, as Congressman MacGregor pointed out tonight, as Minnesota, but one of 60,000 lakes--60,000 with names-not just the "Land of Blue Lakes and of White Snow," but also a land of a very strong people with very great progressive ideas with regard to the development of their country.
I spoke to that point this morning. I will not elaborate on it now. I would like, however, to say that tonight we honor this country and we pay our respects to it as a nation, as the President pointed out, which is neutral and independent, but neutral and independent not in a negative way but a positive way, positive in working always for the cause of peace in the world and in reducing tensions between great and small powers. And it seems to me particularly appropriate that we honor tonight this nation and this man because they have been hosts to the conference at Helsinki,
 the conference that may well have begun the process which could lead to the most significant agreement since the end of World War II in reducing tensions in the world between great powers.
 Phase I of the strategic arms limitation talks between the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
In speaking of our Finnish friends tonight, I would like to say that they are a special kind of friend. I mean by that that they can be our friends, and are our friends, without having to be the enemy of anybody else. It is because we have a special feeling of affection and friendship for the people of Finland and respect for its government and for its leaders, that we are so happy to have the President here tonight and the members of his party.
Now, a word about him: The President is well known in this country because of his many visits here previously. He has been to the United States 16 times, and twice as an official state guest. He was also here in 1932 as a member of the Olympic team of Finland. I attended those Olympic games in 1932. I did not see him participate in the high jump. He was the Finnish champion in the high jump. But the day I was there I watched Lauri Lehtinen of Finland win the 5,000 meters by a yard over Ralph Hill of Oregon. The President recalls that day very well, too, because it was perhaps the most exciting race of all the Olympics of 1932 held in Los Angeles.
Now that leads me to another point. When we think of Finland we think of great athletes, of skiers and snow and Olympic games. We think of the scenery and the rest. But tonight we honor and respect this country because, although it is a small country, its leaders have played a very large role in the world in participating in international organizations, in serving the cause of peace and friendship in the world.
So, tonight I know all of you will want to join me in raising your glasses--raising your glasses to a small country but to a very big man, the President of Finland.