Mr. President, Mrs. Caldera, friends from Venezuela and the United States:
This house--and this very famous room--is honored to have you, Mr. President, and the members of your party here as our guests tonight. I speak first from a personal standpoint, because we are old friends from years before we reached the offices we presently have. We have much in common I should point out to our guests. We both are lawyers. We both like baseball. The President is going to the game tomorrow night, incidentally, to see the great Venezuelan star play for the White Sox against Washington. I don't know which side I am on--tomorrow, maybe the White Sox. Also, we both have the distinction of having run for President and having lost, which proves that having run and having lost does not mean that you may not win at some time in the future.
The President told me that he thought that my election in 1968 was somewhat encouraging to him because our election took place in November, as you may recall, and his took place in December. One of the arguments that his opponents were using against him was that he was a professional politician who had lost before. They said, well, after what happened to Nixon, anybody can win.
We also honor tonight the country the President represents. We honor it as a nation with whom this Nation has had friendly relations for 134 years; a nation-one of the few in the world, Secretary Stans tells me--with which this Nation has a favorable balance of trade, which the President is trying to change, and we wish him well. And we also honor his nation for another reason that in this room it seems appropriate to refer to.
I found that when the President arrived upstairs before coming down to the reception, that he particularly wanted to see the Lincoln Room. Like so many of our friends from the Americas and from the world, he was interested in the Lincoln background. As we were sitting here tonight, looking at this great portrait of Lincoln which hangs in this State Dining Room, I was thinking of those principles which unite two countries and two peoples in this hemisphere, which Lincoln represented and also which are represented by our friends from Venezuela in their history.
The President presented to me before dinner one of the finest and, to me, most appreciated state gifts that I have ever received. It was a replica made by a very famous jeweler in Caracas, a replica of a Washington emblem, a picture of George Washington, which was in 1895 delivered to Simon Bolivar by General Lafayette and was presented to Bolivar by Lafayette on behalf of Washington's grandson. The letters that accompanied the transfer, the fact that Bolivar later wore this tiny medallion with the splendid picture of Washington on it, reminded us that our heritage goes back to the same very sound and great transcendent principles.
We speak different languages in this hemisphere. We represent different cultures. We have different types of music, as we heard a few moments ago. But men like Bolivar and Lincoln and Washington are men that are bigger than Venezuela or the United States. They are as big as America--all the Americas, and as big as the whole world and they belong to the whole world.
Tonight, as we receive the man, the President of the Republic of Venezuela, the birthplace of the liberator, the man who liberated not only Venezuela but Colombia and Peru and Panama--other countries in that area, as we think of what he stood for 134 years ago, what Lincoln stood for and what we believe in today, we realize that despite the difference in distance, in geography, in music, in culture, in language, that we are as one when it comes to our dedication to the right of people to be independent, to be free, to have progress, to have a better life, and to live at peace in this hemisphere without interference from other parts of the world.
Mr. President, your visit reminds us of this common heritage that we share so proudly together. Your visit reminds us also that we must never take it for granted, that we in the Americas must always remember that we are an American family, and that we must find ways to live together and work together and prosper together as a family. I know that your visit will help us in developing those ways better in the future.
I know that all of our guests would agree with me when I say that as we think of you, we think of you representing, as did Bolivar, not just Venezuela but all of our neighbors to the south. And we know that your visit will help us to develop a more effective policy which will meet the great objectives that Bolivar stood for and that Lincoln stood for and George Washington stood for--the policies of peace and friendship and progress for all peoples.
Finally, I would say this: that all of us come from and were born to this world, our nations, through violent revolution. Now our charge and our task is to provide the means and the method through which those great changes that need to be made in the world, in our own countries and in the world, can be made through peaceful change. This is what you stand for, Mr. President, in your country. It is what we work for in our country and we are proud to work with you toward that great goal.
So, I know all of you would like to rise and raise your glasses to His Excellency, the President of Venezuela, and to the friendship of our two peoples.

To President Caldera.