Mr. President, Mrs. Suharto, our distinguished guests:
We are very honored to have in this house the President of Indonesia and his wife and the members of their party.
In welcoming them, I speak not only in an official capacity but also in a very personal sense. I would first remind all of us in this room who are Americans, that we well might not be here had it not been that many, many years ago a sailor started out searching for Indonesia and found America.
In 1492 Christopher Columbus charted the seas in his search for what was then called the Spice Islands. That, of course, is now part of Indonesia. And on the way to the Spice Islands, he ran into America, and that is why we are here.
So we owe much to history. We have something in common.
We have something much more in common. I speak now in a personal sense. In 1953 I had the privilege, with Mrs. Nixon, of visiting Asia for the first time. We were introduced to Asia through Indonesia. It was the first Asian country we visited. It was well that that was the case because the welcome was warm. We learned in that 4-day visit to know about the people of Indonesia, the great historical background, Borobudur, 
 and also the tremendous promise as well as some of the problems.
 Eighth-century Buddhist temple in central Java.
In 1967 I returned to Indonesia, then as a private citizen--not at my own choice--but nevertheless as a private citizen. When I returned to Indonesia, I will always be grateful that Ambassador Green, now the Assistant Secretary for the Pacific area, asked me to meet the man who was to be the President of Indonesia, President Suharto; and the President graciously received me when I was out of office, at his home.
I recall so well the warmth of his welcome, seeing some of his children briefly, and also having the opportunity to talk to him about the problems of Indonesia, as in that critical year of 1967 it was moving on a new course under new leadership under the new President.
Then again last year we had the privilege of visiting Indonesia again, a very brief visit, but a chance to see what had transpired in the 2 years since we were there. We were tremendously impressed.
Then finally today, the President and Mrs. Suharto paid their first visit to America and their first visit to this house.
I give this chronology only for the purpose of reminding those in this room, all of whom are friends of Indonesia, of the fact that this is a very significant occasion, of reminding us all that this great republic of over 100 million people, 1 ,000 miles of islands, joining the Pacific and the Indian Ocean, that its future, its freedom, its independence of any domination, ours or anyone else's, is essential to peace and freedom in the Pacific and for America in the years ahead.
The President knows this. The President and his colleagues stand for this. And we in America are privileged that we can," with complete respect for Indonesia's independent status, always work with Indonesia for what the President wants for the people of Indonesia--a better life, progress for the people that we saw in such great numbers when we were there, and independence, freedom, these words that are used these days so loosely but that mean so much when nations do not have them.
In proposing the health of the President, I want to say that I mentioned this morning that Indonesia is the third most populous free nation of all the free nations. India, of course, is the most populous, the United States is second, and Indonesia is the third.
In the Pacific area, this great, vibrant, free nation of Indonesia is one that is essential to those things that we in this room, Indonesians and Americans, deeply believe in--the right of all people to choose their own way, the right of all people to be free, the right of all people to avoid having imposed upon them any government from abroad that they do not want. It is this that we want for Indonesia. It is this that we are privileged to work with them in the way that they believe is best for them toward those great goals.
To the man who has given to this great, strong country and its people the leadership that is needed at a time that was tremendously difficult, in a time of crisis, the man who was the man of the hour for Indonesia, as Abraham Lincoln was the man of the hour for America 100 years ago, it is my privilege to propose the health of the President of Indonesia.

To President Suharto.