Mr. Prime Minister:
Earlier today we had the very great honor of welcoming you in the East Room due to the weather problem on the outside. And despite that problem, we want you to know that this welcome now in the State Dining Room is one that comes very much from our hearts.
This group gathered here knows your country, and anyone who knows your country from the United States has a great affection and a great admiration and a great respect for your country.
I could put that in a number of ways. I could refer to the rather official ways that I mentioned this morning, the fact that we have had friendly relations for 160 years, that we have worked together in the United Nations for the cause of peace and understanding among nations, and that we have been strong, firm allies in NATO.
I could also put it in terms that are personal, as I mentioned this morning, the fact that anyone who has known the hospitality of your country, in Copenhagen, or as my wife and I saw at Rebild on the Fourth of July, will never forget it and will always carry a special place in his heart for the Danish people.
But tonight I would like to speak of another heritage we have from Denmark in America. We are a nation of many peoples and we are very fortunate that is the case. And one of our good fortunes is that we have within America so many people who came from Denmark, who are proud of that national heritage, but who are also very fine Americans.
I could mention so many who are personal friends, one who is not here, but without whom I might not have ever been elected to the Congress 23 years ago. Another is Lauritz Melchior, who is a very good friend of the man who is not here, and who has inspired us all with his magnificent music through the years.
I speak of the Danes in America who have contributed personally to this country, and then, of course, we think of those things that are more material. We all think of Danish pastry, and Danish chocolate, and Tivoli Gardens, which Walt Disney told me and told the Prime Minister was the inspiration for Disneyland.
We think of so many other things that Denmark and the Danish tradition have contributed to America and to the culture and better living in the world.
Tonight I think it is particularly appropriate that I mention something else more important than these personal ties, more important even than these governmental ties, because it is the quality of the spirit that we owe to you and to your country.
When I think of Denmark, and I think this is true of most Americans, we think of Vikings. We think of those who had the courage and the spirit of adventure to travel to new worlds over uncharted seas. Because of that courage and the spirit of adventure, they contributed enormously to discovering the world.
I think tonight of three men, three men in outer space coming around the moon. I cannot say that they are men of Danish backgrounds. I do not know what their backgrounds are. That is not material and not relevant. But I do know that they have the spirit of the Vikings. They are men of adventure. They are men of courage.
Back home--and I talked tonight to their wives--the wives of two and to the mother of the one who is not married-they have women, who like the wives and the mothers of the Vikings of old waited at home with faith that their men would come back.
So tonight, while this in a way has been a day we would not have wished for on this special day that you came to visit us, it is perhaps just as well that this was the case, because we are reminded that we owe to Denmark and to the great tradition of your people and those in that area in which you live, that spirit of adventure which some way inspires us today, our young people.
May that always be the case, because when the time comes when the young in your land or our land lose their spirit of adventure, when they want to play everything safe, when they don't want to take the risks, when they don't want to take a chance, when they consult their fears rather than their hopes and their desires and their dreams, then your country and my country will not have the capability of greatness which you have in your country and which we hope we have in ours.
And it is in that spirit, therefore, that I ask all of you to rise--to rise and raise your glasses to not only the Prime Minister and his wife, but particularly to this spirit that we both share together among our peoples and to the head of state, His Majesty, King Frederik. To the King.