Mr. Chancellor, Mrs. Brandt, all of our distinguished guests:
In this historic State Dining Room over the past 20 years four Chancellors of the Federal Republic of Germany have been honored--Chancellor Adenauer, Chancellor Erhard, Chancellor Kiesinger, Chancellor Brandt. Four American Presidents have presided over dinners in their honor--President Eisenhower, President Kennedy, President Johnson, and the President at the present time.
What is significant to note is that in the case both of the Federal Republic and that of the United States both major parties are represented in their heads of government, and what is particularly significant to note also is that despite the differences in ages and the differences in time and the differences in parties, that one thing remains the same and that is that the friendship, the alliance, between the Republic of Germany and the United States of America is something that we all believe in, that we all work for, and that this visit will help to perpetuate.
Mr. Chancellor, beyond that we welcome you in a private capacity because you have often, as I pointed out when you arrived earlier today, you have been here on several occasions and you know our country well. We know you well. We think of you in many ways.
I was thinking, for example, of the fact that your political career and mine were somewhat similar in one respect. As you may remember at the dinner that was held in 1967 when I was a private citizen and later in 1969 when I returned as President, I pointed out that I had suffered two defeats and then after two defeats for the highest office, finally had won. And many at that dinner in 1969 turned to you and wondered if history would repeat itself in the Federal Republic of Germany, and it did.
Also, as we welcome you, we think of the links between our two countries in other very personal ways. I mentioned the White House Staff and I am surrounded by Germans, not by your CIA--well, maybe they are your CIA [laughter]-Mr. Haldeman, my chief of staff, is German; Mr. Ehrlichman, the head of my Domestic Council, is German; Dr. Kissinger, the head of my National Security Council, is German. To indicate how deep this insidious infiltration into this administration runs, I find that not only was my wife's mother born in Germany, which makes her half German, but that Vice president Agnew's wife's father is half German.
So, within the two First Families, the Vice President and the President of the United States, we find one full German and that is more than we have of any other country in the world.
We are delighted that on this visit you have had a chance to enjoy Camp David, the special place where Presidents have usually stayed and receive only very special guests. And we are particularly happy that tomorrow you will go to see the takeoff of Apollo 13. We are very honored that tonight among our many guests is Wernher Von Braun,
 which reminds us of the debt we owe to those who have helped our space project who are of German background.
Dr. Von Braun was Deputy Associate Administrator for Planning, National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
I think all of our guests would be interested to know that just before this dinner, at 7: 45 tonight, I called Captain Lovell
 and his colleagues--they were having their last dinner together before the takeoff tomorrow--wished them well, told them that the Chancellor would be there to see the takeoff and they promised much better weather than when I saw it last year.
James A. Lovell, Jr., Commander of Apollo 13.
Incidentally, Mr. Chancellor, I want you to know that I had that call to them placed by the White House operator. The last time I dialed a call myself, the night of the German elections, I dialed the wrong number.
 [Laughter]
On the night of September 28, 1969, the President called Chancellor Kiesinger and, on the basis of incomplete election returns, congratulated him for winning the German elections; Chancellor Brandt proved to be the eventual winner.
On this occasion, I want to close on one very serious note. When we think of the future of our civilization, western civilization, we know that what happens to Western Europe will have an enormous influence on that future and we know that in the heart of Western Europe is the Federal Republic of Germany. We know that it is essential that that heart be strong and vigorous and free if Western Europe and the European Community and the European-American alliance are to be strong and vigorous and free.
Mr. Chancellor, we therefore are deeply grateful for the leadership you have provided as the leader of your country, in maintaining the strength that is necessary to preserve freedom, but yet also pursuing, as you have, a policy of negotiation which we hope will eventually take the place of confrontation in the very heart of Europe.
And so tonight we welcome you as we have welcomed your distinguished predecessors, because you have a great country and a truly great people with whom we have so many bonds. And we also welcome you very warmly and very deeply in a very personal sense as an old, personal friend and as one that we look forward to working with for the cause of freedom which you so deeply believe in and the cause of peace which is essential if we are to be able to enjoy freedom at all.
I know you will all want to rise and join me in a toast to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, Chancellor Brandt.