Mr. Secretary of State and Mrs. Rogers, Ambassador Peal, Mrs. Peal, all of the distinguished Ambassadors, Members of the Cabinet, Members of the Senate and the House, and other distinguished guests on this occasion:
The Secretary of State has informed me that his check of the precedents indicates that this is the first time in the history of this room--the State Dining Room at the White House--that a state dinner has been given for the Ambassadors of the Organization of African Unity. And we are very happy to have you here for the first time on this occasion.
I suppose that in mentioning that, that the reasons might be appropriate to mention. I think of the fact that it was just 13 years ago tonight that I returned with Mrs. Nixon from my first trip to Africa. You will remember Congressman Diggs was with us on that trip. We had been to Ghana, and learned about the "high life" 
; and we also had been on that occasion to Liberia, and a brief stopover at Uganda and Ethiopia, as well as some stops in Northern Africa, and I remember we were in Libya, in Tunisia, and Morrocco.
 A West African dance.
But when I think of what has happened in those 13 years, I think particularly of what has happened in terms of new nations. There are 33 new nations in Africa over the past 13 years. Ghana was the first to have its independence at that period of time, and then others followed.
I think of the other things. I think of the fact that the Secretary of State, in his recent trip, was the first Secretary of State of the United States ever to pay a state visit to Africa. And I want to say that my remarks tonight can be somewhat limited because his official report and recommendations on that trip will be made in just a few days. And I will let that report speak for itself, except to say that I endorse it in advance, and I have great confidence in the Secretary of State on the basis of his oral report already.
Now what I am really trying to bring home by these vague references, to an extent-- fact that this is the first dinner in which all the African diplomats were honored in this room; the fact that 13 years ago an American Vice President returned from the first state visit by an American Vice President to Africa, and what has happened since then; the fact that the Secretary of State has returned, too, recently from a visit to Africa; and all these new countries have been born-this indicates the escalating manner in which Africa and the nations of Africa have come upon the American as well as the international scene in a very short period of time.
Now, in speaking to Ambassador Peal, whose country is a bit older than some of the others represented here, he was saying earlier that same of the new countries, because they were new, had problems. I can only say that older countries have Problems, too. I know. And perhaps the Problems become more complex as the countries get older.
Well, whatever the case may be, I want you to know that we in this Government, not only this administration but in the Senate and the House, Democrats and Republicans alike, as we welcome you tonight we welcome you for the people that you represent. We welcome you and have an understanding of the problems that you have, and we particularly think of your future and how we can be helpful to the extent that it does not interfere with your own decision in making that future one that will be better for you and the people of that great continent.
I have often been asked what I remember about the countries of Africa that I visited on three trips, the one in 1957 and then twice as a private citizen, in 1963 and then in 1967. Of course, I remember the 13 countries that I covered in those trips-I remember the Presidents and the Emperor and the other great dignitaries that I met, and the officials that I had the opportunity to talk with. And I remember, too, the tremendous promise of those lands that I could see, the resources that were there, some developed, some waiting to be developed.
But most of all, my memories are of the children that I saw. I can see them now in Morocco, in Tunisia, in Libya; I can see them in Uganda, Kenya, the Congo; and I can see them in the Ivory Coast, in Liberia, in Zambia, and in Ghana. And I think that tonight all of us realize that that is what our responsibilities are all about. We think of those children and our own children. We think of their future. We think of the kind of a world we presently live in, and we think of what we want the world to be for them. We think of the fact that in Africa they are children, for the most part, in new nations with great hope and great problems and also enormous opportunities--if they just had a chance.
That is what I think is the American experiment: hope, opportunity. But you have to give people a chance.
And we only hope that in our policy toward Africa--these new countries as well as the old ones, that we will be able to help you realize your hope, to extend to the greatest opportunity that is possible the ideas that you have for your future, but, above all, to see that your children realize that they have a chance, a chance for a better world, a more peaceful world, a world of progress, a world of opportunity for them and all of the other children of the world.
And so tonight I, of course, now propose a toast. I cannot to each head of state--that would take quite a time--and I cannot to each Ambassador or each Senator or each Cabinet officer, but I think that the Organization of African Unity, in which all of the hopes of this great continent are certainly represented, I think that we would all like to rise and raise our glasses to the Organization of African Unity, to the OAU.