Mr. President, Madame Pompidou:
We are honored to welcome you to this house. And on such an historic occasion, when we welcome the head of state of the French Republic, we, in the United States, are reminded of how much we owe to your country.
We think of some of the things immediately around us, of this city, which you just described very generously before dinner as being a beautiful city; and we remember that it was planned by a Frenchman, Pierre L'Enfant.
We think of this table and of this service which we see around us--this gold service-and it came from France, from Margaret [Thompson] Biddle, who many in this room will remember lived in Paris for so many years.
We think of such things as the music, the art, the culture that comes from France, not to mention such things as food and wines, which are well represented at this table tonight.
We think also of things that are much more profound and which I will mention only briefly, because where something is of great importance, very few words are needed to describe it.
Just two nights ago in the East Room we heard a new Broadway show--new, it has been there only a year--called "1776." It tells the story of the new America that was founder almost 200 years ago. And it is a very exciting story about that young, struggling country and how it came into existence.
Tonight, we, in this Nation, remember one very profound and simple fact: But for the help that this young Nation received from France, we would not be here tonight. Because of the assistance we received from France almost 200 years ago, America was born; it became an independent country, and since that time we have always been grateful for that assistance.
Tonight I can say to this company that France has always been our ally; it has never been our enemy; and it will always be our friend.
With that kind of friendship, which is deeper and more profound because it is based on the fact that we understand and respect the right to at times find different ways to the same goals, the goals of independence and freedom which brought this Nation into being in 1776, and which Frenchmen, fighting side by side by Americans, helped to bring it into being, and since then, fighting side by side by Americans, have kept those principles alive in the world.
Just 10 years ago in this room, at tables shaped almost like this, President Eisenhower toasted the President of the French Republic, General de Gaulle. And I remember on that occasion, General de Gaulle spoke to me about the future of the United States. He said that the time had come to build a new America.
I would say tonight that, as we enter the last third of this century, that we have the responsibility to build a new world, and that we in the United States are proud and thankful that we shall be working with our friends and allies, our oldest friends and allies, from the French Republic, in building that new world in which all people may have the opportunity that we have had for independence and freedom.
So tonight I know that all of you will want to join me in raising your glasses to the President of the Republic of France.