Mr. President, Senora Diaz Ordaz, Your Excellencies, and our friends from Mexico and the United States:
As I stand here today on this historic site, I think back to another day. In 1953, the first year of his administration, President Eisenhower traveled to the Mexican-American border to meet with President [Adolfo] Ruiz Cortines to dedicate the new Falcon Dam on the Rio Grande. And that structure, he said at that time, was a "living testimony to the understanding and the cooperation binding our two peoples."
Now, in 1969, in the first year of my administration, I, too, come to Mexico. I come to talk with President Diaz Ordaz and to dedicate another new dam along that same river, a complement to the Falcon Dam, and one which was built as a direct result of an agreement which President Eisenhower signed in 1960, his last full year in office.
Like the Falcon Dam, the new Amistad Dam also testifies to the spirit of understanding and cooperation which binds our two countries. In fact, its very name describes better than any other single word the special spirit of our relationship.
How that name came about is an interesting story. In October 1959, President Eisenhower at Camp David met with President Lopez Mateos. The dam then was to be known as the Diablo Dam. President Eisenhower thought that was a rather ominous name for a dam and President Lopez suggested that the name be changed to Amistad.
So today we have a name which to millions of my countrymen who speak Spanish means "friendship," and friendship for my countrymen is a word which carries a special meaning and a special warmth. As we dedicate this dam today, we also rededicate ourselves to the furtherance of an ideal friendship.
Mr. President, we meet today on an international border. It is a beautiful place where we gather, beautiful for natural reasons and beautiful, too, because we see here what two great countries can accomplish when they work together.
This dam is an impressive achievement in many ways. First of all, it is an impressive physical achievement. It will contribute to the conservation and regulation of water supplies and will provide a fine recreational resource for both our people.
It is also an impressive diplomatic accomplishment, the result of complex and determined efforts which have stretched over a period of many years.
And finally, this achievement is impressive in human terms, impressive because of what it says about the special relationship which has grown up between the people of Mexico and the people of the United States.
It is a relationship based on a full understanding, for each of our countries knows the other way. It is a relationship based on mutual trust, for each of our countries has confidence in the other's good will. And it is a relationship based on mutual respect. Each of us recognizes the sovereignty and independence of the other and the right of each to reach different conclusions in matters of mutual interest without impairing our basic friendship.
Mr. President, while our visit today is a brief one, this great dam which we dedicate will continue to bear witness to our relationship day in and day out, year in, year out. It stands as a persuasive example to all the people of the world of the advantages which can come from peaceful cooperation between nations. And it will remain always a tangible monument to the spirit of friendship and partnership between our two peoples and our two nations.