Mr. Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen:
I want to take this opportunity to extend, on behalf of 200 million Americans, a very warm welcome to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic to our country, and particularly a warm welcome of the millions of Americans who are proud of their German background, including, incidentally, my wife, whose mother was born in Germany, and our two daughters, who, therefore, are one-fourth German.
Mr. Chancellor, as you come here today, this visit is tremendously significant because the discussions that now are taking place on East-West relations revolve around the problem of Europe and the heart of the problem of Europe is the Federal Republic.
I know from our previous discussions, and from my analysis of events in Europe, that your country has almost inevitably been the focus of not only discussion, but sometimes of violent attack. Sometimes, I am sure, that you and your colleagues and those who live in the Federal Republic and those who live in Berlin must think that you are somewhat lonely with all of the attacks that are made on you, at least verbally.
We just want you to know that here in the United States we proudly stand with you as friends and allies. Here in the United States we are proud to welcome you as the leader of your country to our Nation.
I know that the talks that we will have will continue--as did our talks in February, when I visited your country--to advance the cause of our mutual defense; but beyond that, to expand the great alliance, of which we are a part, into one which will deal not only with those problems that result from fear, but with the more exciting problems in which we can make progress toward the peace and the understanding in all areas which people throughout this world so deeply seek.
Finally, I would add that having come so recently from a visit to Eastern Europe, knowing, therefore, that what seems to divide Eastern Europe from Western Europe may be a barrier which seems insurmountable at times, that deep down the peoples of all of Europe---of all of the world, for that matter--are determined to be together, together in their search for peace and together in their determination to have progress.
Having seen all this, I know that the spirit of our talks and the result of our talks will be most helpful, most helpful because you, coming from the Federal Republic are so keenly aware of what it means to live in a divided country-
Mr. Chancellor, finally, I simply want to say to you that I will always remember the warm welcome that we received on our visit to your country, in Bonn and Berlin. I can assure you that every place you go in the United States you will receive an equally warm welcome from all of your friends in America.