Mr. President, Mrs. Suharto, all of these very distinguished guests this evening:
I first wish to express on behalf of those who are your guests from the United States our grateful appreciation for this beautiful dinner and also for the kind remarks that you have just made about our country, and particularly about our astronauts whose great feat, as I mentioned earlier today, we considered as one that was beyond the achievement of a nation, but which belonged to all mankind.
Also, on this occasion I realize that the position that I am in is a unique one-one that will not come again--because since I am the first American President ever to pay a state visit to Indonesia, the next American President who comes here will not be in the position I presently find myself in.
Consequently, I would like to respond to your very gracious remarks by trying to relate our policy as I understand it to the hopes and desires of your great people.
You have spoken very properly of the fact that we in many ways have similarities in background; the fact that we both were once colonies and had revolutions.
Ours is older than yours by almost 200 years, but we went through many of the same problems that your nation has gone through and is going through today. And because we are a nation that has an immense interest in all the developments in the world, we have followed what has happened in Indonesia. We have followed it because this is one of the major countries of the world. What happens here, the future of the 115 million people of Indonesia, will have an enormous effect on the future of peace in the Pacific and, therefore, on peace in the world.
We, therefore, are interested in Indonesia for that reason, but we are also interested in Indonesia for another one, because those of us who have had the privilege--a privilege that I have had---of visiting this country, of knowing your people, realize how rich this country is in its resources and, more important, how rich it is in its people.
Today, again, we were reminded of that wealth as we visited the Djakarta Fair. We saw many, many people. But we saw represented there, too, all of the country, the customs and the culture of the past, and the diversity of this country which gives it such wealth.
But we saw also the plans for the future--the exciting 5-year plan which your Government has initiated.
As I thought of those things, the past and the plans for the future, I realized that our country is privileged to play a part with you in helping to achieve those plans, those ideals, and those goals. I say privileged, because sometimes we think of the assistance that we provide to other countries as being a burden. I do not consider it that way.
As I see it, only when it is mutually helpful to us both is such assistance something that either of us would want.
As I consider Indonesia and all that it means to peace in the Pacific and in the world, as I consider the possibilities for progress in this country in the years

ahead---possibilities that probably are as exciting as for any nation in the world today--then I realize that the United States of America should welcome the role of being of some assistance in achieving that goal.
Let me be also quite precise in another respect.
You referred in your remarks to the fact that when our astronaut first set foot on the moon that he uttered the historic words that it was: "... one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind." And so it was.
But you also very appropriately referred to the fact that here on earth too often the steps for mankind are very, very small, if at all.
That is why, as we consider your country, all the countries of Asia that I will visit, we will be thinking of how those steps can be larger; how they can become, finally, a giant leap for mankind on earth at a time that we have made a giant leap for mankind in expanding his knowledge beyond the earth--toward the heavens.
I would like to say in this connection that we have admired, Mr. President, your policies--admired them because, as we study 'the history of nations, it can truly be said that while a revolution is very difficult--difficult and costly in men, in treasure, and in lives--that many times the more difficult part of a nation's development is what comes after a revolution: that hard, daily drudgery of building again after the revolution has necessarily destroyed some of the institutions of the past.
So we see you engaging in that task, you and your colleagues represented in this room today. We saw evidences of it at the fair, and your 5-year plan.
I have seen it quite precisely in an issue that we are trying to deal with in the United States. I noted that 3 years ago Indonesia had one of the highest rates of inflation in the whole world, and today it is one of the lowest.
If you would tell us the secret, that would be very helpful for me to take back to the United States.
But as we look at that achievement, as we look at the stability, the strength, the political stability, the economic stability, that you have provided to this country during the time that you have been present-you and your colleagues--we have confidence that Indonesia now is ready to move forward--move forward not with just small steps, but bigger and bigger steps, so that in the end it will mean a giant leap forward.
We want to be with you. We want to assist you in any way that you think is appropriate--we along with other nations who have the capacity to do so.
For that reason, it is a very great privilege for me to return to this country for the third time, to return in an official capacity as President of my country, and to reaffirm the ties of friendship which sometimes, as you have indicated, have been strained, but which, fortunately, today are very, very strong.
If there is one goal that the administration, which I now heard in Washington, will have, it will be to see that the ties of friendship, and cooperation, and mutual trust and assistance between Indonesia and America will be stronger and stronger, because this is in our interest as well as in yours. It is in both of our interests because what happens here, as I have indicated earlier, may well determine whether peace and independence survive in the Pacific and, therefore, in the world.
And so I ask all of you to join me in raising your glasses to the President and Mrs. Suharto, and to the great Indonesian people, to their prosperity, their progress, their independence, and the peace that we will all enjoy.