Mr. President, Madame Suharto, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen:
As I stand here in Djakarta on this beautifully brilliant day, I realize that this is a very special occasion for me and for my wife, and, in a sense, in the relations between our two countries.
Because it was 16 years ago that I first visited Indonesia, and Indonesia's was the first Asian capital that I visited as Vice President of the United States. I remember the warm welcome we received all over the country on that occasion, and we have always wanted to return.
Then again in 1967 I had the privilege of returning as a private citizen, and at that time, Mr. President, it was my privilege to meet you and to talk to you, and to others in your Government.
Now as I stand here today, I realize that for the first time in history, a President of the United States of America is visiting Indonesia. This is a privilege for me, to be the President at this time--at this time in the history of our country, of your country, and the history of civilization because this is a momentous time, a time that we will always remember.
We realize that just a few days ago the first men from earth set foot on the moon, and all of our ideas about the heavens and the limitations that we have on earth thereby were changed.
We have a saying in our country: The sky is the limit. And up until the time that these two men set foot on the moon, that was the ultimate that anyone could say-the sky is the limit.
And now no longer is the sky the limit. Because of what happened--not simply because two Americans set foot on the moon, but because two men who represented all mankind, all the people on earth, set foot on the moon--the sky is no longer the limit. And if we can soar beyond the sky, certainly we can find the way to bring peace and progress to those who live beneath the sky on this earth.
That is the lesson for all of us of this great adventure in which we have shared.
As I stand here in Indonesia today, I realize what a great part this country will play in that great adventure for the future, not only because it is a major country in Asia and in the Pacific, not only because it is one of the great and most populous democracies in all the world, but because this country has its future before it.
It has a great past--a past full of tradition, tradition which I was able to see along with Mrs. Nixon when we traveled over the country.
But as one that has moved from colonial status to independent status, and now looks to the future, as a nation with great numbers of people, with unbounded natural resources, Indonesia is a nation that excites the imagination of all the peoples of the world.
Mr. President, I want you to know, the members of your Government and all the people of your country to know, that the people of the United States wish to share with you in this adventure in progress-share in this way: We know you want to be independent, and we understand that. We know that you wish to be self-reliant, and we understand that. We know, too, that there is much in the way of resources that needs to be developed, and to the extent that we and other nations on a multilateral basis, or a bilateral basis, can be of assistance, we want to play our fair part.
So I look forward to the talks that we will have--talks that I trust will bring a better understanding between our two countries, between Indonesia and the United States of America--talks that will promote the cause of peace in the Pacific, and that means in the world--and talks that, above all, will provide for the future of this great country and of all the countries in the world the progress, the peace, the independence, and the right to choose their own way that all people want.
With these thoughts in mind, I thank you again, Mr. President, for your welcoming remarks. It is very good to return for the third time to this great country. Thank you.