President Marcos, Mrs. Marcos, all of the distinguished guests who are assembled here, and all of the members of this tremendous welcoming party at the airport:
I have been deeply moved by the words that have been expressed by President Marcos in his welcoming and also by the numbers of you that are here today. And as one who has visited the Philippines many times, I can say that I have looked forward to this return visit, as every American looks forward to returning to the Philippines once he knows the people of this country, knows them and has the afection for them, and the respect for them and the admiration for them that I have is an American citizen.
I think it is significant to note that the first world capital that I am visiting, after having greeted the first men to have set foot on the moon, is Manila, the capital of the Philippines.
And that, it seems to me, is appropriate from a number of circumstances, but particularly so because now we speak not just of our world, but of the universe.
And I am not unaware of the fact that a very lovely lady from the Philippines, Miss Gloria Diaz, has been named Miss Universe.
Also, the first Asian capital that I am visiting on this trip which takes me around the world is very appropriately Manila and the country is the Philippines. The reasons for that have already been mentioned by President Marcos.
I would like to add to what he has said in 'just a few words.
As we think of that great venture into space, as we think of the first man setting foot on the moon, we realize the meaning that that has, clearly apart from the technical achievement, we realize that if man can reach the moon, that we can bring peace to the earth. And that should be the great lesson of that great space journey for all of us.
This mission, which begins here, is in the quest of peace, peace in the Pacific, peace in Asia, peace in the world.
I come here because the Philippines-the leaders of this country have played and will play a great role in bringing that peace. And, it seems to me, that we must think of the Pacific and of Asia in terms of the past, of the present, and the future.
I noted, for example, that the commander of the honor guard, which I just had the privilege of reviewing, was one of the veterans of Bataan. He was the commander of the honor guard when I visited this country in 1956 on the 10th anniversary of the Philippines. That brought home to me the close relationships between our two countries, but particularly the stake that the Philippines and the United States have together in peace in the Pacific.
We went through World War II together. We have gone through Korea together. We now have a war in Vietnam. And when we look at the possibilities of potential war, down to the end of this century, perhaps we would have to say that the greatest danger exists in Asia and in the Pacific.
But that also presents the greatest challenge. And the challenge I think can be met--it must be met.
And I want to speak very candidly to my friends in the Philippines, because I know you like straight talk. I know that in your political campaigns you have a lot of straight talk, just as we have in the United States.
But if peace is to come from Asia-and I emphasize this point--the United States will play its part and provide its fair share. But peace in Asia cannot come from the United States. It must come from Asia. The people of Asia, the governments of Asia, they are the ones who must lead the way to peace in Asia.
That is why I compliment the leaders of the Philippines in playing a role in Asian cooperation, economically, politically, and otherwise, to bring about the peace that we all seek.
And then in another vein, we realize, as we look at that great venture into space, the larger meaning that it has for all of us in terms of seeking peace.
A great French philosopher once said that true friendship comes not when we look at each other, but when we look outward together in the same direction. And for just a few moments, the whole world looked outward together in the same direction toward the moon. And as we did that, we were brought closer together.
Your own great President Quezon
 put it very eloquently when he said that nationalism can be a very constructive force in the world, but that nationalism is most constructive when we remember that we are all part of the great human family; that being part of that great human family, the greatest role that any nation can play is the role of serving the interests of all mankind and of, therefore, serving the interests of peace.
Manuel L. Quezon, President of the Commonwealth of the Philippines 1935-1941.
I speak in these general terms today because it is appropriate to do so on this first welcome after that historic exploit into space, on my first visit to an Asian capital [on a journey] that will take me clear around the world.
But, as I conclude, I want to speak very directly, too, about the relations between our two countries, relations that I have a very strong feeling about, as I am sure that everybody here, be he Filipino or American, has a strong feeling about. Let me be quite candid.
It is true that our relations with the Philippines go back further than that with any Asian nation. It is true that the people of the United States feel closer to the people of the Philippines than we do to the people of any Asian nation. This is because of those things that we have shared together.
It is also true that our relations have been strained, strained recently for a variety of reasons. We are still very good friends, but even among friends, it is possible to have strained relations.
And I want everybody here to know that as I come to the Philippines in this brief stay, I hope that we can initiate a new era in Philippine-American relations, not returning to the old special relationship, because the winds of change have swept away those factors, but building a new relationship, a new relationship which will be based on mutual trust, on mutual respect, on mutual confidence, on mutual cooperation.
That is what we want, and that is what I think the people of the Philippines and of the United States will support.
So, Mr. President, in that spirit and in the spirit of your very eloquent remarks, again, I thank you for this wonderful welcome.
In that spirit, also, I say from the bottom of my heart to all of our friends in the Philippines, mabuhay [greetings, good wishes].