Mr. President:
I am very honored to welcome you and the members of your party here to Washington today in three capacities: first, as the representative of your country, which I have had the privilege of visiting; second, as the representative of a great continent; and third, as an individual.
As a representative of your country, it is very appropriate to note that you were the first state visitor to the United States from the American family to the south. It is very appropriate that you should be the first, coming as you do from Colombia, because we all recall the great events in which your country played such an important role in developing the organizations which created the American family that we know today.
It was in 1948 in Bogota that the Organization of American States was set up. It was in 1960 that the Act of Bogota was adopted, which became the foundation for the Alliance for Progress.
And just a month ago--and incidentally, primarily through your leadership-the Andean Common Market had its birth in Bogota.
So, the role that Colombia has played in the greater problems of the hemisphere in developing the spirit of the American family, we honor today in receiving you in Washington, D.C.
We also welcome you today in your capacity as an individual. We know your background, going back over many years in the field of government, in the field of education, in the field of politics in the very broadest sense.
And we know that you have contributed, through your thought, to the ideas, the exciting ideas, which we are going to need, if we, in this American hemisphere, develop the programs which are adequate to the tremendous challenges that we face.
I am looking forward to the talks we will have, not only in the bipartisan and also bilateral context in which they will be conducted--because it is bipartisan in this country whenever we speak of foreign policy, but particularly whenever we speak of the American family--but also because, in the broader sense, we believe that you are one of the new voices speaking for the American family that needs to be heard.
We know that your ideas will be ideas that should be considered in developing new policies which will meet the common goals that we all want to achieve for the Americas.
So, because you represent a great country, a country with which we have had such friendly relations, because you represent a great continent, a continent so close to us, not only geographically, but in our hearts, and because, as an individual, you represent ideas that we need to hear and that we want to discuss with you, we welcome you most warmly today to the United States.