Your Imperial Majesty and our guests here on the White House lawn this morning:
This is the ninth time over the past 20 years that Your Majesty has honored our country by a visit to the United States, and never in all that period will you be more welcome, both personally and officially, than you are today on this truly brilliant autumn day in Washington, D.C.
We welcome you because of the proud and ancient land that you represent. We welcome you because of the title which you bear with such distinction. But we welcome you also because of the personal qualities, which those of us who know you as I know you--those qualities you have exemplified in your leadership of your country.
Today on this parade ground we see the flag of the United States and your flag; and the colors of your flag are green and red and white--green standing for the rich spiritual heritage of your country, red standing for courage, and white standing for peace.
We know, Your Majesty, that you, in your life, stand for those great virtues. But we also know that you stand for more than that. In a period in which many new nations are being born, and in which old nations are being born again, and in which all nations are going through change, you have provided an example of leadership in your nation for all the world to see and for many to follow.
That example I have seen firsthand in my visits to your country. I recall that many years ago you gathered your ministers together; and speaking from the position of royalty which you held, you made a comment that has since been remembered around the world. You said to them: Make a revolution in this land.
And you have made a revolution in your land, a revolution in terms of literacy, the great progress that all of us have noted there; a revolution in terms of land reform in which you, yourself, set the example by giving much of your vast lands to the people; a revolution in terms of social and economic and political progress.
But the key to your success has been in the nature of that revolution. It has been a revolution designed not to destroy and to tear down, but a revolution to build--a peaceful revolution.
It is this example that the world sees in Iran. It is this example that is your legacy, not only to your country but to those who seek progress--peaceful progress in nations around the world.
Your Majesty, we welcome you here today--welcome you because of those qualities that I have mentioned and welcome you also because of the personal friendship that we have had the opportunity to enjoy, going back over so many years.
We know that all of the American people, during your brief stay here, will want to express, as I have tried to express in my words today, their admiration, their respect, their affection for you and for the people of Iran.