Mr. Prime Minister and ladies and gentlemen:
We have just completed a series of meetings, first a private talk between the Prime Minister and myself, and also a number of meetings at other levels of government between members of his party and members of the administration.
I think it could be said without fear of contradiction that this is one of the most successful meetings of this type--successful in the sense of the number of subjects covered and the progress which has been made in the solution of those subjects-ever held between the two countries.
We have issued to the press a joint statement 
 which will indicate the subjects that were discussed and the positions that were taken and several future meetings that are planned.
 See the joint news briefing by Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler and Romeo LeBlanc, Press Secretary to the Prime Minister, printed in the Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents (vol. 5, P. 467).
I have only two other brief things to add before the Prime Minister will have a chance to indicate his reactions to some of the subjects we discussed.
Your visit, Mr. Prime Minister, has provided us here an opportunity to know intimately the problems of your country, but also to know you. This we deeply appreciate.
I have been impressed by the candor and also by the restraint of the statements, the conversations that we have had.
As we work together in the years ahead, I am confident that the relationship will be a close one; it will be an honest one; it will be one where we will find some areas of disagreement, but far more areas of agreement.
We are so delighted that you came here so that we had the opportunity to know you in this way.
Finally, the Prime Minister has invited me to pay a visit to Canada. Mrs. Nixon and I are delighted to accept that invitation. We will arrange a time convenient to both the Prime Minister and ourselves at some later time.
But apart from that visit, I think that the members of the press should know that we have established several channels of communication; some existed before, new ones have been added at all Cabinet levels where there are common interests.
We found several new areas in which communications could go forward. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, we will not talk only on official visits of this type, or like the one I will pay to his country; we will be in communication by telephone, of course, as well as through the diplomatic channels, because this is a new era of consultation and, we hope, cooperation between our countries who share so much together.
Thank you.