Mr. Prime Minister:
This has indeed been a very eventful and rewarding visit for me. Our time together was short, but, in Kipling's words, we filled "the unforgiving minute with 60 seconds' worth of distance run."
We received the typically warm and generous welcome of the British people; we were received by your gracious Queen and Prince Philip; and in the most frank and open manner we were given the opportunity to exchange views with your leaders of government.
I shall always remember the events of yesterday. At Westminster Abbey I was reminded of the splendor of your traditions, the greatness of your history, and I shared the gratitude which General Pershing must have felt when he presented the Congressional Medal of Honor to Britain's unknown soldier.
Yesterday, for the first time in history, a man occupying the Office of President of the United States visited a session of the House of Commons. It was an inspiring and compelling experience, one for which I am deeply grateful. And it was an experience in which I came away with a deep appreciation and respect for the ability of the British parliamentarian to stand up during the question period and answer so effectively.
I believe that your question period is much more of an ordeal than our press conference.
It was a moment which no man who has served in the Congress of the United States can forget, for it was here that representative government was born and it was here that men such as Pitt, Disraeli, Gladstone, and Churchill turned their genius and eloquence to the challenges of social reform and the defense of freedom.
Yesterday, too, an American President in office was given the opportunity of exchanging views with a representative cross-section of citizens in the nongovernmental sector. This, too, was a very rewarding experience for me and one that I hope may establish a new precedent in visits of this type, that will be made by heads of government and heads of state.
Then, too, as you remarked, the opportunity--an historic opportunity--to meet with members of the British Cabinet not only on points of mutual interest that were bilateral, but more on those subjects that draw together from the beginning time of our own history and of yours where we have been, where we are, where we are going.
This discussion is one that will stay in our memories for all of our lives, because it is centered on how we can best pursue our common purposes--the cause of peace, prosperity, a better life for our young people and for all mankind.
I have never been more certain--and that certainly has been buttressed by my visit here--that the strength of our ideals and purposes, and the collective force that Europe and America have built to safeguard them, are the necessary cornerstones of the lasting peace we both seek.
Let us, Great Britain and America, remember that "United" is our common first name--the United Kingdom, the United States. We know the real meaning of unity--not the unity of the monolith, but the unity that gains strength by encouraging the diversity which is the hallmark of freedom--a diversity that I saw in action around your Cabinet table and that I see in action around mine.
That is the kind of unity we seek within the Western Alliance--a unity creative in its contrasts, flexible in its forms, but above all, powerful in its purpose.