Madam Prime Minister, our very distinguished guests from India, and our very distinguished guests from the United States:
Madam Jha, the wife of the very able Ambassador to the United States from India, said a moment ago that for her this was a very historic occasion. I think all of us should realize that this is, indeed, a very historic occasion for a very historic room.
As I sit here tonight by the Prime Minister of India, my mind goes back to the other times that I have been in this room. My memory goes back, as does, I am sure, the memories of most here, to the dinners that have been held in this room, not a large room compared with the great rooms of Europe and Asia and the rest, but it is the room where Presidents of the United States for over 190 years have entertained state guests.
In the chair that the Prime Minister now occupies, in my time I have seen Winston Churchill, Charles de Gaulle, Chancellor Adenauer, Prime Minister de Gasperi, Kishi of Japan, Sukarno of Indonesia--large countries, small countries-all honored men, honored women, who have occupied the place of head of state or head of government visiting the United States of America.
I think of what makes this occasion particularly special, particularly historic, in a room that has seen so many historic occasions. I am reminded of the fact that just 2 nights ago in the East Room-where tonight we will hear or see one who has been described as America's outstanding ballet dancer--2 nights ago we heard a man who was described by Time magazine, when he completed his 25th year at the Metropolitan Opera House, as the best tenor in the world--Richard Tucker.
Afterwards we went upstairs, and I had a chance to talk to him a bit. He told me about his sons. He had three sons. He was very proud of them. One was a doctor. One was a broker in New York City. Another was a very successful businessman.
I said to Mr. Tucker, "But no tenor, no singer?" He said, "No, Mr. President." He said, "You will find that in the field of music that it is the exception." As a matter of fact, he could think of no case where it was not the case that the great talent that one in the field of music has is transferred to the second generation. Sometimes to the third, but never to the second. So his sons--a doctor, a broker, a businessman.
Naturally, tonight our thoughts go to the field of politics. Is the great genius that we see in the field of politics transferred to the second generation or to the third or the fourth, or what is the case?
I think back to the year 1957. Prime Minister Nehru sat in this chair. President Eisenhower sat in this chair. Our distinguished guest of honor was here with Prime Minister Nehru. She sat in that chair.
I think what has happened since that time, and I think back to what Mr. Tucker said about music--that the genius and talent of a great star is not repeated in the second generation. Then I think of the career of our honored guest.

I could speak of her tonight as representing, as she does, the greatest democracy in terms of numbers in all the history of the world--500 million people. I could also speak of her as one who, as I mentioned earlier today when I welcomed her on the South Lawn, who received more votes through the parliamentary system than any person has ever received in the whole history of the world. I also could speak of her as one who, in the field of politics, has never lost an election, and that really impresses me.
I could also speak of her as the daughter of Prime Minister Nehru, as a woman. But today we honor her not because she is a woman heading the largest democracy in the world, not because she is the daughter of one of the world's most legendary and distinguished statesmen, but because in her own right, as demonstrated by a fantastic, brilliant success in an election in a free country, she won.
She represents her people. She has a mandate from her people. And so she is with us today as one who deserves our honor and our respect because of the country she represents, because of her own achievements, and because of, also, what she stands for.
I have understood that Prime Minister Nehru--whom many in this room have had the opportunity to meet, as Mrs. Nixon and I did, both in 1953 and 1957 when he was here had as one of his favorites among poets our American poet Robert Frost, and that on his desk, until the day he died, he had a little saying, an excerpt from Mr. Frost's poems, which went something like this: But I have many promises to keep, and many miles to travel before I sleep.
Prime Minister Nehru did not live to see his promises kept. But in this historic moment, how proud he would be to see his daughter honored as we honor her-not because she was his daughter, but because in her own right she represents his country, because in her own right she is working to fulfill the promises that he made.
Those promises are ones that we share: the promise of progress for people who want it and need it and deserve it; the promise of progress through freedom, a great experiment in democracy when it would be so easy to turn to a totalitarian system to solve such difficult problems; and the promise of peace.
I shall never forget the conversation I had with Prime Minister Nehru on the occasion that he received us so graciously in 1953 when I was Vice President. On that trip around the world, of 73 days in 20 countries, I asked every head of government and state what he wanted most for his country. Some said roads; others said industrial development; others said better agricultural development; others said education. Prime Minister Nehru did not answer in that way. He thought a moment, and he said: What India needs, what the world needs, is a generation of peace.
Many of you have heard me speak of a generation of peace. India is committed to that great goal. The Prime Minister is committed to it. I am. Our Government is certainly committed to it.
And so tonight, Madam Prime Minister, we honor you not simply as the daughter of a great leader, but as Prime Minister of the world's most populous democracy, but as one who is working to fulfill those promises, those dreams of progress and freedom and peace for your people and all people in the world.
That is why this is truly an historic occasion.

Let us raise our glasses to the Prime Minister.