Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. McMahon, and our distinguished guests from Australia, and our distinguished guests from the United States:
We are delighted .and honored to welcome the Prime Minister of Australia here tonight, along with his wife and the members of their party. We have tried to make you all feel very much at home, Mr. Prime Minister, and as you will note as we came into the White House an Australian song was being played by the Marine orchestra, and I understand the last song that was played by the Strolling Strings of the Army was an American song, which was played, Mrs. McMahon tells me, on the night that you proposed to her.
This may give you an idea of the very special feeling we have for our distinguished guest, for his leadership in the world, and for the country that he represents. I could speak tonight of the fact that the United States and Australia are joined together in a number of commitments and particularly the ANZUS commitment, a treaty which was made shortly after World War II and one which was reiterated on our part and on their part just a year ago.
But a treaty can have different meanings. All treaties must be honored, as the United States will always honor its treaties. But this treaty with Australia goes far beyond simply that piece of paper, that contractual agreement which nations must honor if they are to keep their international commitments.
I think it could truly be said that there are no two great nations in the world that are further apart geographically than Australia and the United States. It also could truly be said that there are no two nations in the world that are closer together in the values they share and in the spirit with which they will defend those values than Australia and the United States.
We know this. We know it from World War I and World War II and Korea and now in Vietnam. We know it not only in war but as we work together for peace. And as we think of those values, so many of us in this room--and the guest list, Mr. Prime Minister, as you might imagine, was selected because so many know your country, have been there, and love your country and your people, as all who have been there do love it--as we think of your country, we think in personal terms. I remember the first Australian I ever met. It was in World War II. I arrived at Henderson Field, Guadalcanal. I was in the Navy. The Marine Corps was there ahead of us. The Navy brought them in. [Laughter]
I remember that evening, my first day in Henderson Field, talking to a Marine sergeant and what a strong and brave man he was and what he had been through. And I said to him with some awe, "You fellows must be the bravest men in the world."
He said, "No. Do you know- who are?" I said, "Who?" He said, "The coast watchers." "Who are they?" I asked. "Wait and you will meet them."
My next stop up the line in the Solomons was Bougainville, and I met, for the first time, a coast watcher. He was an Australian. This remarkable group of men--I don't know how many there were, perhaps no more than 100--who operated throughout those Pacific islands as coast watchers in the most hazardous duty of perhaps any war, won the admiration and respect of all Americans who were there and all people who had the opportunity to know what they were doing. That was typical of Australian valor in World War I and World War II and in all those occasions where we have been associated with them.
I only mention this in a personal sense because I think each one of us who knows Australia and its people has that enormous respect for their courage, for their idealism, for their loyalty, for their friendship. We feel especially close to Australians though they are so far away from us geographically.
And tonight, Mr. Prime Minister, I want you to know that this company of 100 really speaks for 200 million Americans when we say that we cherish the friendship and alliance we have had in the past; that our policies in the future will build on that friendship and that alliance; and that your visit here is welcome to us--welcome to us because you represent a country and a people for whom we have such great respect and welcome to us because you, in our view, are and do serve as a statesman of the first rank in the world. As our talks have demonstrated--they have been most useful in discussing not only bilateral affairs but the problems of the world generally and for this we are most grateful for the long journey which you have taken.
An Australian poet, I understand, once wrote that Australia's future is a prophecy. Anyone that has been to this wonderful country--and my wife and I were there for the first time in 1953, and I was there again in 1965--but anyone who has been there would know that Australia has a proud past, but it has an enormously exciting future.
And the man who has played such a great role in building that past, who presently leads Australia in the present, at this time, and the man who is contributing to the fulfillment of the prophecy for the future of Australia is the man we honor tonight. I know you will want to rise again and join in a toast to the Prime Minister.
Prime Minister McMahon and Mrs. McMahon.