Mr. President, Madam Broz, our distinguished guests from Yugoslavia, and all of our distinguished guests from the United States:
As I was talking to President Tito tonight, my memory went back to other occasions in this State Dining Room of the White House when other world leaders have occupied the chair which he now sits in. The great leaders of the world have been here.
I recall the evening when Winston Churchill was in this chair, Charles de Gaulle, Adenauer, Nehru, Sukarno. I think of those leaders and many others, and then I think of President Tito of Yugoslavia, our distinguished guest tonight.
The men that I have mentioned all headed countries that were bigger than Yugoslavia, both in territory and in numbers. But I think that I can say without fear of contradiction that no world leader who has been honored in this room has personally met and known more world leaders in his capacity as head of state and government than President Tito of Yugoslavia.
This means that one who is so fortunate to have the opportunity to talk to him is able to talk to one who is as well informed, if not better informed, than any world leader in all the world today. This tells us something about both the man and his country.
Yugoslavia is a country about the size of Wyoming. It has 20 million people, a diverse country in terms of its people, just like the people of the United States are diverse. Yugoslavia has followed, under the leadership of President Tito, a policy of what is sometimes called nonalignment, but which I would say simply would be one of trying to have good relations with all nations, whatever their philosophies, whatever their geography, whatever their background.
For this reason, our distinguished guest tonight has traveled throughout the world, has been received, honored, and respected in nations throughout the world; and, consequently, he has demonstrated that it is possible to have good relations with nations who may not have good relations with each other. This makes him rather unique on the world scene today.
For that reason, the talks that I had with him a year ago, and again on this occasion, have been most helpful and constructive. His contribution not only as a leader in war but even more as a leader in peace, to the cause of peace, to which he is dedicated and we all are dedicated, will be one which history will record is unique because of the position that he has held.
In proposing a toast to him tonight, I can refer to him as the President of a friendly country, I can refer to him as a leader in war, but I think that he would prefer to be referred to as one who is a leader in peace.
I know that all in this room, including the several of our guests from America who have backgrounds--as do so many millions of Americans--from Yugoslavia, that all of you will want to join me in the toast that I will propose not just to the man, President Tito, a world renowned figure, but to a country of brave people and courageous people with whom we are fortunate to have friendly relations, and to the future of that country and all countries like it in the world. They may not be large in terms of territory, they may not be numerous in terms of numbers, but they are proud, they cherish their independence, and they have a right to that independence. We respect it.
To the man who stands for the right of every country in the world to choose its own way, to have its own policy, the man who stands for independence and peace in the world, President Tito, I propose his toast tonight.

To President Tito and Madam Broz.