The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released July 16, 1979
Advance text: remarks at the annual convention of the National Association of Counties in Kansas City, Mo.

Fact sheet: oil import reduction program News conference: on the oil import reduction program—by James R. Schlesinger, Secretary, and Alvin L. Aim, Assistant Secretary for Policy and Evaluation, Department of Energy; Eliot R. Cutler, Associate Director for Natural Resources, Energy and Science, Office of Management and Budget; and Bertram W. Carp, Deputy Assistant for Domestic Affairs and Policy
Advance text: remarks at the annual convention of the Communications Workers of America in Detroit, Mich.

Announcement: settlement of Pennsylvania and Delaware Gasoline Dealers' Association strike
Released July 17, 1979
Announcement: nomination of James W. Kehoe to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida
Released July 18, 1979
Announcement: nomination of Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Georgia

Announcement: nomination of Juan Guerrero Burciaga to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico

Announcement: nomination of Irvin B. Smith, Jr., to be United States Marshal for the District of Delaware
Released July 19, 1979
News conference: on the proposed reorganization of the Federal Government's international trade activities—by Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, and James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget

Fact sheet: proposed reorganization of the Federal Government's international trade activities

News conference: on White House activities in the energy field pursuant to the President's proposals contained in his address to the Nation—by Anne Wexler, Assistant to the

President, Mr. Carp, and Mr. Cutler

Statements: support for the President's energy program—by leaders of business and labor organizations and civic associations

Biographical data: G. William Miller, nominated to be Secretary of the Treasury
Released July 20, 1979
Transcript: statement by the President on U.S. troop withdrawals from the Republic of Korea (as read by Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, in the Briefing Room at the White House )

Statements: support for the President's energy program—by civic and religious leaders (two releases)

Announcement: nomination of Barbara B. Crabb to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Wisconsin Announcement: nomination of Terence T. Evans to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin

Announcement: nomination of Eugene P. Spellman to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida