RESOLUTION OF THE SENATE.
Whereas it has pleased Divine Providence to remove from this life Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States, the Senate, sharing in the general sorrow which this melancholy event must produce, is desirous of manifesting its sensibility on this occasion: Therefore
 That a committee consisting of Messrs. Webster, Cass, and King be appointed on the part of the Senate to meet such committee as may be appointed on the part of the House of Representatives to consider and report what measures it may be deemed proper to adopt to show the respect and affection of Congress for the memory of the illustrious deceased and to make the necessary arrangements for his funeral.
RESOLUTION OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Whereas it has pleased Divine Providence to remove from this life Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States, the House of Representatives, sharing in the general sorrow which this melancholy event must produce, is desirous of manifesting its sensibility on the occasion: Therefore
 That a committee consisting of thirteen members be appointed on the part of this House to meet such committee as may be appointed on the part of the Senate to consider and report what measures it may be deemed proper to adopt in order to show the respect and affection of Congress for the memory of the illustrious deceased and to make the necessary arrangements for his funeral.
(The committee consisted of Messrs. Conrad, of Louisiana; McDowell, of Virginia; Winthrop, of Massachusetts; Binsell, of Illinois; Duet, of New York; Orr, of South Carolina; Breck, of Kentucky; Strong, of Pennsylvania; Viaton, of Ohio; Cabell, of Florida; Kerr, of Maryland; Stanly, of North Carolina; Littlefield, of Maine.)
OFFICIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE FUNERAL.
WASHINGTON, 
The Committee of Arrangements of the two Houses of Congress, having consulted the family of the deceased, have concluded that the funeral of the late President be solemnized on Saturday, the 13th of July, at 12 o'clock; the religious services to be performed by the Rev. Dr. Pyne at the Executive Mansion, according to the usage of the Episcopal Church, in which church the deceased most usually worshiped; the body to be afterwards taken from the President's house to the Congress Burying Ground, accompanied by a military escort and civic procession, and deposited in the receiving tomb.
The military arrangements to be under the direction of Major-General Scott, the General Commanding in Chief of the Army of the United States, and Major-General Walter Jones, of the militia of the District of Columbia.
Commodore Warrington, the senior naval officer now in the city, to have the direction of the naval arrangements.
The marshal of the District of Columbia to have the direction of the civic procession.
All the members of the diplomatic corps, all officers of Government, the clergy of the District and elsewhere, all associations and fraternities, and citizens generally are invited to attend.
And it is respectfully recommended to the officers of the Government that they wear the usual badge of mourning.
ORDER OF THE PROCESSION.
FUNERAL ESCORT.
(In column of march.)
Composed of such corps of the Army and the militia as may be ordered or as may report themselves for duty on the occasion.
CIVIC PROCESSION.
The United States marshal of the District of Columbia and his aids.
The mayors of Washington and Georgetown.
The Committee of Arrangements of the two Houses of Congress.
The chaplains of the two Houses of Congress and the officiating clergyman of the occasion.
Attending physicians to the late President.
 .--Hon. Henry Clay, Hon. T. H. Benton, Hon. Lewis Cass, Hon. Daniel Webster, Hon. J. M. Berrien, Hon. Truman Smith, Hon. R. C. Winthrop, Hon. Linn Boyd, Hon. James McDowell, Hon. S. F. Vinton, Hon. Hugh White, Hon. Isaac E. Holmes, G.W.P. Custis, esq., Hon. R. J. Walker, Chief Justice Crunch, Joseph Gales, esq., Major-General Jesup, Major-General Gibson, Commodore Ballard, Brigadier-General Henderson.
The horse used by General Taylor in the late war.
Family and relatives of the late President.
The President of the United States and the heads of Departments.
The Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.
The Senate of the United States, preceded by the President 
 and Secretary.
The Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives.
The House of Reprsentatives, preceded by their Speaker and Clerk.
The Chief Justice and associate justices of the Supreme Court of the United States and its officers.
The diplomatic corps.
Governors of States and Territories.
Ex-members of Congress.
Members of State legislatures.
District judges of the United States.
Judges of the circuit and criminal courts of the District of Columbia, with the members of the bar and officers of the courts.
The judges of the several States.
The Comptroller of the Treasury, Auditors, Treasurer, Register, Solicitor, and Commissioners of Land Office, Pensions, Indian Affairs, Patents, and Public Buildings.
The clerks, etc., of the several Departments, preceded by their respective chief clerks, and all other civil officers of the Government.
Clergy of the District of Columbia and elsewhere.
Officers and soldiers of the Revolution.
Corporate authorities of Washington.
Corporate authorities of Georgetown.
Officers and soldiers who served in the War of 1812 and in the late war.
Presidents, professors, and students of the colleges of the District of Columbia.
Such societies and fraternities as may wish to join the procession, to report to the marshal of the District, who will assign them their respective positions.
Citizens and strangers.
The procession will move from the President's house at 1 o'clock precisely, or on the conclusion of the religious services.
DANIEL WEBSTER,
CHAS. M. CONRAD,
GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 22.
WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
The joint committees of the Congress of the United States having designated the General in Chief, Major-General Scott, to take charge of the military arrangements for the funeral ceremonies of the late President of the United States, the Secretary of War directs that the Commanding General of the Army give the necessary orders and instructions accordingly. The military arrangements will conform to the directions found in the reports of the special committees of the Senate and House of Representatives.
By order of the Secretary of War:
R. JONES, 
GENERAL ORDERS.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
 , 
The Major-General Commanding the Army of the United States, having been charged by the joint committees of Congress with the military preparations for the funeral honors to be paid to the illustrious statesman, soldier, and citizen, Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States, directs the following order of arrangement:
ORDER OF THE MILITARY PROCESSION.
FUNERAL ESCORT.
(In column of march.)
 .--Maryland volunteers; volunteer troops from other States; battalion of volunteers from the District of Columbia.
 (to be commanded by an officer of the Army).--Two companies of volunteers from Washington; two companies of volunteers from Baltimore; battalion of United States marines; battalion of United States artillery, as infantry; troop of United States light artillery.
Dismounted officers of volunteers, Marine Corps, Navy, and Army, in the order named.
Mounted officers of volunteers, Marine Corps, Navy, and Army, in the order named.
Major-General Walter Jones, commanding the militia; aids-de-camp.
Major-General Winfield Scott, commanding the Army; aids-de-camp.
The troops will be formed in line in the Avenue, north of the President's mansion, precisely at 11 o'clock a. m., Saturday, the 13th instant, with the right (Brevet Major Sedgwick's troop of light artillery) resting opposite the War Department.
The procession will move at 1 o'clock p.m., when minute guns will be fired by detachments of artillery stationed near St. John's church, the City Hall, and the Capitol, respectively.
On arriving on the north front of the Congressional Burial Ground the escort will be formed in two lines, the first consisting of the firing party, facing the cemetery and 30 paces from it; the second composed of the rest of the infantry, 20 paces in rear; the battery of artillery to take position on the rising ground 100 paces in rear of the second line.
At sunrise to-morrow (the 13th instant) a Federal salute will be fired from the military stations in the vicinity of Washington, minute guns between the hours of 1 and 3, and a national salute at the setting of the sun.
The usual badge of mourning will be worn on the left arm and on the hilt of the sword.
The Adjutant-General of the Army is charged with the details of the military arrangements of the day, aided by the Assistant Adjutants-General on duty at Washington, by Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel Swords, of the staff, and Lieutenant W. T. Sherman, Third Artillery.
The United States marshal of the District of Columbia having been charged with the direction of the civic procession, the military will cooperate in the general order of arrangements.
By command of Major-General Scott:
R. JONES,
General Order.
The major-general, zealous to execute the honorable commission in which the joint committees of Congress have associated him with the General in Chief of the Army, deems it proper and conducive to the end in view to make the best preparation in his power for carrying into effect the field arrangements of the military movements in the procession of the funeral of the late President, arrangements which must necessarily await the arrival of the General in Chief. For that purpose he thinks it expedient to appoint a general rendezvous where all the corps and companies of militia, including all who may march from any of the States with those of this District, may assemble at an early hour in the morning of Saturday, the 13th instant, and there receive final orders for being formed and posted. They are therefore requested to take notice that such rendezvous is in front of the City Hall. The corps and companies from the States are requested to repair to this general rendezvous immediately on arrival; those of the District not later than 9 o'clock a.m. The commandants of corps and companies are expected to report, immediately on arriving at the rendezvous, to the major-general or such staff officer as may be detailed for the purpose, the strength of their respective commands.
All officers not on duty in their respective corps or companies are requested to appear in full uniform and mounted. The post intended for them is in the personal suite of the General in Chief. The major general knows of no more honorable or more interesting post that he could assign them in time of peace than that of following the lead of the renowned Scott in the procession of the funeral of the renowned Taylor.
WALTER JONES,
RESOLUTION OF CONDOLENCE BY CONGRESS.
A RESOLUTION expressing the condolence of Congress for Mrs. Margaret S. Taylor.
 , That the President of the United States be requested to transmit a copy of the proceedings of the two Houses on the 10th instant in relation to the death of the late President of the United States to Mrs. Margaret S. Taylor, and to assure her of the profound respect of the two Houses of Congress for her person and character and of their sincere condolence on the late afflicting dispensation of Providence.