

The President's senior advisors would recommend approval 
:


Otherwise, the President's senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.

The Nation's security depends upon proper support for our defense and international .activities. This is why the President has been so emphatic about adequate appropriations for them. This is also the reason the President has threatened veto unless restrictive language — such as that on the anti-satellite weapon system (ASAT), binary chemical weapons, nuclear testing, and strategic forces deployment — is removed from the bill.

Within the context of the criteria mentioned above, the Administration would not oppose domestic appropriations consistent with the Senate 302(b) allocations of the Congressional Budget Resolution (CBR) for discretionary budget authority and outlays. Moreover, the Administration recognizes the need for modest flexibility in order to reconcile differences between the House and Senate 302(b) allocations and differences among the contents of individual appropriations measures upon which the Continuing Resolution is based. However, in the aggregate, discretionary domestic budget authority and outlays must not exceed the Senate 302(b) levels. In no circumstances should allocations for defense and international affairs be used to finance increases 1n domestic spending.

In addition, it is vital that numerous policy differences which the Administration has identified in previous correspondence be resolved so that veto threats may be removed. (Negotiations over these items should be commenced in earnest at the leadership's earliest convenience.) In particular, the Administration opposes any across-the-board reductions.

The Administration's position is that all aspects of the Continuing Resolution be consistent with the above criteria and should reflect previous communications on individual appropriations measures.






: In rejecting the President's proposal for FDA user fees, the House has added restrictive language prohibiting the use of funds to develop, establish, or implement user fees. This language represents an intrusion into effective management of FDA drug approvals and would seriously hamper FDA's effort to improve the processing of new drug applications.

: The Administration opposes language that forbids CSFP from reimbursing CCC for commodities donated to the program. The reimbursement of CCC for commodities is a valid program expense, and failure to pay for donated CCC items understates the resources needed to maintain CSFP food packages. This restriction results in subsidies to CSFP by CCC.

: Language specifying that REA use 4-year old criteria to determine the ratio of private to public financing and prohibiting REA from requiring that borrowers use their own funds first before borrowing.

: "Restriction would not allow the U.S. to pay off on loan guarantees to banks holding loans to Poland unless the President declares Poland in default. This is bad foreign policy and undermines the CCC Export Credit Program.

. Section 626 mandates minimum staffing levels for three bureaus of USDA -- Farmers Home Administration, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, and Soil Conservation Service. This Infringes on the Executive branch's ability to Implement programs efficiently and effectively. 




: The House included language that prohibits obligation of FY 1986 or FY 1987 appropriations for procurement of binary chemical weapons until October 1, 1987. The provision also prevents withdrawal of existing U.S. chemical munitions from Europe unless replaced by binary munitions. These restrictions place the Administration in the untenable position of not being able to replace our obsolete unitary chemical weapons in Europe because we cannot produce the newer and safer binary chemical weapons for replacement.

: The House added language that would prohibit U.S. nuclear test explosions of greater than one kiloton of explosive yield. This would compromise the credibility of our nuclear deterrent and would halt the introduction of modern safety and security devices into the majority of our stockpiled Weapons.

: The Administration objects to the provision prohibiting deployment of any nuclear weapons which would violate the sublimits of the unratified SALT II Treaty unless the President certifies that the Soviets have deployed forces in excess of the SALT II sublimits. The Administration also opposes the provision preventing overhaul of SSBM 642 or SSBN 624. These provisions would undermine the U.S. position regarding strategic arms control agreements and lessen Soviet incentives to engage in serious negotiations towards a new agreement requiring deep reductions.

: The Administration opposes the reduction of the military pay raise from 4% (in October) to 3% (in January) and the increase in civilian raise to 3%.

: Provision would allow military personnel to appeal directly to the courts for de novo review of even routine personnel matters they allege are reprisals. This would mean an unprecedented involvement of courts in military actions and would undermine the authority of military commanders. 




.

: Completing the lock will cost $250 million. Other more efficient, less environmentally harmful modes of transportation exist.

: Report language prohibiting any study of the sale of uranium enrichment facilities and restricting debt repayment. 


: Limits 1987 expenditures of current and prior year appropriations for foreign operations.

: Requires written approval of committees in order to obligate funds to an account other than to which appropriated. (Unconstitutional)

: Requires committee approval of transfer to International Narcotics Control account (Unconstitutional) 


: Prohibition on NASA from using funds to reassfgn and/or transfer programs and personnel from the Johnson Space Center without congressional authorization.

: Language would modify rent control prohibition in rental rehabilitation program to allow States to restrict rents in assisted units.

: Language imposes one year prohibition on implementing proposed new rules on disaster relief. Rules would shift from a 75/25 cost sharing with State/local governments to a new "sliding scale" cost sharing based on the severity of the disaster. 


: Provision requires Congressional approval for certain resource reallocations. This effort to micromanage IHS's resources will delay efforts to tie resource allocations to Indian health care needs.

.

 Would require that structures on OCS contain at least 50 percent U.S. materials.

.

: Establishes minimum fill rate of 75,000 barrels per day.

 The Administration objects to provisions specifying that no costs associated with Federal construction of distribution system and drains of the California Central Valley Project will be paid by power contractors of the project. This provision could make nonreimbursable certain construction costs required under current law to be repaid to the Federal Government by project beneficiaries.

 Bureau of Indian Affairs, Operation of Indian programs -- The bill prohibits the use of appropriated funds to move the "northern California agency office from Hoopa, California, unless a reprogramming request has been submitted to and approved by the House and Senate Appropriations Committees." 


: The House continues to mandate a minimum dumber of "new" and "competing" NIH research grants in the appropriations language. We believe that a more productive measure, one that permits NIH the flexibility essential to continued excellence in biomedical research, would be a minimum number of total research project grants.

. The Committee Reports Indicate that the appropriation for the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) does not include amounts to expand the Professional, Administrative, Technical, and Clerical compensation survey needed for more accurate comparisons of Federal with non-Federal pay systems, as contemplated by the Federal pay-setting law. Congress should make clear that the BLS appropriation is available for this important expansion.

 The House seems to endorse the Administration's efforts to improve the allocation of AIDS research funds, by giving the Director of NIH the flexibility to allocate NIH AIDS funds on the basis of scientific opportunity and public health need. We encourage the Congress to extend this meritorious concept to the entire Public Health Service's efforts to address the wide range of public health issues surrounding AIDS.

 Prohibits the closing of Job Corps Centers before July 1, 1988.

 The bill has new appropriation language for state UI and ES Operations apparently aimed at permitting States to carry over UI administrative money from one fiscal year to the next. Such a change would be contrary to the financial management improvements just instituted by the Department of Labor. If these Federal tax dollars are not needed to administer unemployment insurance programs in one fiscal year, there is absolutely no reason to permit them to be spent on non-essential activities in the next fiscal year when the subsequent appropriation will cover all necessary costs. 
 -- No objections.





: Limits the number of "political and Presidential appointees" in the Department of Transportation. This provision would severely limit management's flexibility. 


 (S&E): Establishes personnel floor of 14,891 FTE. Requires Customs Service to report monthly to Congress on vacant positions with funding availability.

 The imposition of a seven month delay in permitting implementation of the OMB Circular A-21, as modified in consultation with the university community, undermines the combined efforts of the Congress, the universities, and the Executive Branch to address the problem of rapidly growing overhead payments. As indicated in the June 9th revision of the Circular, the Executive Branch remains willing to adjust the administrative overhead allowance figure when universities present data that permit further analysis of the effects.

 The Administration opposes the addition of 5 construction projects and strongly opposes the construction of a Federal building in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, and the purchase of a site for a Federal building in Chicago, Illinois.

 The Administration opposes the prohibition on sale, lease, rental, excessing, surplusing or disposal of any portion of properties located at Fort DeRussy, Honnolulu, Hawaii.

 The Administration opposed the prohibition on contracting for work performed by employees in selected positions in the General Services Administration.

 Prohibits funds to be used on consolidation of field offices.

 Establishes personnel levels for Taxpayers Service.

 Prohibits reviews of agricultural marketing orders, including certain statistical data.

 Prohibits funds for regulations that have been disapproved by resolution of disapproval.

: Prohibits payment of funds to person nominated but not approved by Senate.

 Eliminates eligibity requirements for Combined Federal Campaign; denies funds to change CFC regulation.

 The Administration opposes the reduction of the military pay raise from 4% (in October) to 3% (in January) and the increase in civilian raise to 3%.