

The President's senior advisers will recommend a veto of the bill reported by the Senate Committee. The Committee scores its action as being $4.0 billion below the Administration's request. These reductions were achieved in part by the Committee's decision not to approve the proposed $2.3 billion purchase of the Small Business Administration's loan portfolio from the Federal Financing Bank for sale to the public and by cutting badly needed funding for international operations and diplomatic security. When adjusted to a comparable basis, this bill exceeds the Administration's request by more than $325 million.

Past economic activity as well as revised economic assumptions point to slower growth and a higher projected deficit than was forecast earlier. In the Administration's opinion, as well as that of the Congressional Budget Office, the Congressional Budget Resolution, including its allocation to the Commerce-Justice-State Appropriations Subcommittee, will be inadequate to avoid the necessity of a Gramm-Rudmann-Hollings sequester. The Administration believes Congress should act to cut spending in areas of lower priority in this bill so that a sequester, which would hit high-priority and low-priority areas alike, can be avoided.

The enclosure details funding provisions that are objectionable to the Administration. The most seriously objectionable ones are:

The Administration objects strongly to deep and dangerous cuts to key foreign affairs activities. These reductions would restrict seriously the President's ability to achieve his national security objectives. The Committee has reduced the request for the State Department by $1.63 billion, or 43% on a base of $3.8 billion. Also large reductions were made in the request for the United States Information Agency and the Board for International Broadcasting. The resulting amounts are inadequate to meet the needs of our diplomacy. The reductions are most harmful in the vital diplomatic security program, with respect to international organizational contributions, and for the regular salaries and expenses account. Unless these cuts are restored, particularly for the diplomatic security program, the nation's representatives abroad will be left even more vulnerable to attacks.

The Administration strongly supports continuation of the Commission on Civil Rights at the $12.6 million level of the President's 1987 budget request. The action of the Committee, which would reduce the appropriation by 50 percent (to $6 million) should be reversed by the Senate. More important, the administrative restrictions approved by the Committee would make it exceedingly difficult for the Commission to perform its function as a national resource for the furtherance of civil rights.

Finally, the Administration strongly opposes general provision 609 that would ratify the California-Nevada compact for the apportionment of the Carson, Truckee, Walker rivers and provide that the Federal Government agrees to be bound by its terms. The compact unilaterally abrogates Federal rights and responsibilities to Indian tribes and other entities. Ratification is acceptable only if it includes language proposed by the Administration specifically protecting the Federal obligations and responsibilities.

99:115,79
September 11, 1986




I. 


II. 

