

The Administration has serious concerns with the Transportation Appropriations bill. In addition, late last night, the Administration learned that major new drug legislation is expected to be proposed by the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee as an amendment to the bill. If the "Emergency Drug" amendment developed by the Chairman is included in the Transportation Appropriations bill in its current form, the Secretary of Defense, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the President's other senior advisors will recommend to the President that he veto the bill.

The Omnibus Drug Act required the President to do a thorough analysis of the drug problem and to send Congress a comprehensive strategy for solving the problem. As required by lav, Director Bennett spent six months consulting widely and preparing just such a strategy. The strategy has been generally viewed as serious and sound. To propose a major increase in funding, 78 percent over FY 1989, just six days later — and to demand acceptance in 24 hours — is to reject the whole Drug Strategy process that the Congress itself demanded and legislated.

Other serious concerns with the "Emergency Drug" amendment follow:

The Administration has several serious concerns about the Transportation bill itself. The bill assumes the use of $300 million of Department of Defense appropriations to fund services for the Coast Guard. The Administration strongly opposes the practice of diverting funds from needed Defense programs to augment inadequate appropriations for the Coast Guard. In addition, it is the Administration's position that providing domestic discretionary programs (such as Coast Guard services) with funds intended for national defense violates the Bipartisan Budget Agreement (BBA).

Based on OMB's scoring, discretionary spending provided by this bill would result in outlays of $27.5 billion or $59 million 
 the 302(b) allocation. The Initial OMB Sequester Report of August 25th made clear that we have virtually no margin for expenditures above the 302(b) allocations if we are to avoid sequester. We therefore would respectfully urge the Senate to find appropriate means to bring the bill down to the 302(b) level.

The Administration is also concerned because the bill funds Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) operations, modernization of air traffic control equipment, and Coast Guard services at levels below those contained in the President's request. We urge the Senate to fund fully the FAA and Coast Guard requests by making reductions in highways, mass transit, and Amtrak.

The Administration opposes a number of other provisions, as outlined in the attachment. We hope that the Senate will approve a bill that adequately funds essential programs, that complies with 302(b) allocations and the BBA, and that addresses satisfactorily the issues raised by the Administration.

Attachment