GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 71.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,
ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
1. The following order of the Secretary of War announces to the Army the death of James A. Garfield, President of the United States:
WAR DEPARTMENT, 
 .
With profound sorrow the Secretary of War announces to the Army that James A. Garfield, President of the United States, died at Elberon, N.J., at twenty-five minutes before 11 in the evening of September 1881.
The great grief which is felt by the nation at the untimely death of the President will be especially felt by the Army, in whose service he bore so distinguished a part during the War of the Rebellion. In him the Army has lost a beloved Commander in Chief, friend, and former comrade.
Proper honors will be paid to the memory of the late Chief Magistrate of the nation at headquarters of each military department and division and at each military station.
The General of the Army will give the necessary instructions for carrying this order into effect.
ROBT. T. LINCOLN, 
II. On the day after the receipt of this order at the headquarters of military commands in the field, and at each military station, and at the Military Academy at West Point, the troops and cadets will be paraded at 10 o'clock a. m. and the order read to them, after which all labor for the day will cease.
At dawn of day thirteen guns will be fired at each military post, and afterwards at intervals of thirty minutes between the rising and setting sun a single gun, and at the close of the day a national salute of thirty-eight guns.
The national flag will be displayed at half-staff at the headquarters of the several military divisions and departments and at all military stations until the remains of the late Chief Magistrate are consigned to their final resting place at Cleveland, Ohio, at 2 p.m. on the 26th instant.
The officers of the Army of the United States will wear the badge of mourning on the left arm and on their swords and the colors of the regiments will be draped in mourning for the period of six months.
III. The following officers of the Army will, with a like number of officers of the Navy selected for the purpose, compose the guard of honor and accompany the remains of their late Commander in Chief from the national capital to Cleveland, Ohio, and continue with them until they are consigned to their final resting place: The General of the Army, Major-General Winfield S. Hancock, Quartermaster-General M. C. Meigs, Adjutant-General R. C. Drum, Inspector-General D. B. Sacket.
By command of General Sherman:
R. C. DRUM, 
GENERAL ORDERS, NO. 72.
HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,
The following order has been received from the War Department:
The Secretary of War announces to the Army that upon the death of James A. Garfield, President of the United States, Chester A. Arthur, Vice-President, on the 20th day of September, 1881, at his residence in the city of New York, took the oath of office as President of the United States, to which office he succeeded by virtue of the Constitution. President Arthur his entered upon the discharge of his official duties.
By command of General Sherman:
ROBT. T. LINCOLN,
 .
R. C. DRUM,