

The Administration supports child care legislation that is consistent with the following principles established by the President:

S. 5 violates all of the President's principles:

In addition, S. 5 sets up a huge bureaucracy with significant administrative overhead costs that will reduce the monies available to parents.



The alternative advanced by the Majority Leader — the "Mitchell substitute" — is an attempt to ameliorate the highly objectionable features of S. 5. Although it includes a tax credit that is not inconsistent with the President's principles, it is fundamentally flawed because:



The President's tax-based proposal (S. 601) is clearly superior to S. 5 and the Mitchell substitute. It provides all assistance directly to parents, allowing them to decide for themselves how best to meet their children's needs. Assistance is targeted to low-income families, and 100% of the families who meet income and family composition requirements receive assistance. Two parent families in which one parent works at home to care for the children are eligible for the Child Tax Credit, which is not conditioned upon their making expenditures specified by the government.

The President has indicated that he is firm in his devotion to the principles underlying his proposal, but that he is flexible on how best to achieve them. As the Senate acts on child care legislation, the Administration seeks to advance a bill that best reflects the President's principles and prevents the S. 5- Mitchell approach.



We understand that Senators Dole and Packwood will propose an amendment to perfect the Mitchell substitute that does the following. It emphasizes direct assistance to parents by providing tax credits to low-income families with children. It includes an Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) supplement for young children, which benefits two parent families in which one parent cares for the children at home. This supplement, which is similar to the President's Child Credit, could be used for, but is not conditioned upon, the purchase of health insurance. The amendment also makes the current Dependent and Child Care Tax Credit refundable, as proposed by the President. It retains the Head Start authorization increase and revenue measures in the Mitchell substitute.

This amendment clearly is far more consistent with the President's principles than S. 5 or the Mitchell substitute. It provides for greater parental choice and better targeting of those in need; it reduces discrimination against mothers who work at home; and it does not discriminate against parents who favor sectarian child care. Accordingly, the Administration favors Senate passage of the Dole-Packwood Amendment.

If S. 5 or the Mitchell child care bill were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto it.