(FINAL/sent)



If S. 2830 were sent to the President prior to the conclusion of the budget summit and does not achieve substantial, multi-year savings from the current (Mid-session) estimate of program costs; 
 if price and income supports are not made more market- oriented than the Committee version, which is a retrogression from the 1985 Act; then the Secretary of Agriculture and the President's other senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.

From a budget perspective, the bill is both premature and inadequate. The Administration expects the budget summit to achieve substantial, multi-year savings from our Mid-session Review baseline. Thus, it would be a mistake for Congress to complete action on a bill that gives producers the wrong impression by sending them inaccurate signals about likely program parameters.

From a policy perspective, S. 2830 includes provisions for commodity subsidies that would reverse the strides toward market orientation made in the 1985 Food Security Act.

The commodity provisions of S. 2830 would cost $59 billion over the next five years. The bill authorizes another $25 billion for programs in science and education, conservation, forestry, marketing and inspection, and foreign food assistance. These spending levels exceed the Administration's proposal by $25 billion and the current law baseline by $8 billion. Equally important is the fact that the bill would greatly increase the likelihood of budget outlays beyond $59 billion.

Apparently the Committee is attempting to circumvent the discipline of the budget process by not including a nutrition title, with the expectation that a package similar to the House nutrition title will be accepted in conference. The House expansions are estimated to cost $543 million in FY 91 and almost 
 over five years. This is in 
 to the current baseline growth of 16 percent or $2.5 billion, from FY 90 to FY 91.

Such an expansion is totally inconsistent with the deficit reduction being sought in the ongoing budget summit, and is an example of the type of mandatory cost expansion that has fostered the current crisis. The bill should include a reauthorization of nutrition programs consistent with the Administration's proposals and financed within the parameters of the Senate budget resolution, and any subsequent bipartisan budget agreement.

The Administration also has concerns with a number of provisions in the trade title. With respect to food aid, we strongly object to the attempt to bypass Presidential authority by dictating the Executive branch structure for administering the program. The P.L. 480 program serves multiple legislative objectives and affects a wide variety of domestic and international interests. Therefore, we believe it is imperative that authority to direct, manage, and delegate responsibilities for food aid programs be maintained by the President. With regard to export assistance programs, the Administration opposes the provision allowing foreign agricultural commodities to be exported under Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) guarantee programs, and the provision earmarking $50 million of CCC funds for promoting oilseed crops. The Administration also opposes the provision requiring spending levels in USDA's Long-Term Agricultural Strategy Reports to be treated as the President's annual budget submission. Finally, the Administration opposes the provision barring foreign financial institutions from receiving assignment of letters of credit issued by CCC.

The Administration also has serious objections to provisions in S. 2830 that are not related to the commodity and food assistance titles.
