

If H.R. 3950 were sent to the President prior to the conclusion of the budget summit and does not achieve substantial, multi-year savings from the current (Mid-Session) estimate of program costs; 
 if price and income supports are not made more market-oriented than the Committee version, which is a retrogression from the 1985 Act, then the Secretary of Agriculture and the President's other senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.

From a budget perspective, the bill is both premature and inadequate. The Administration expects the budget summit to achieve substantial, multi-year savings from our Mid-Session Review baseline. Thus, it would be a mistake for Congress to complete action on a bill that gives producers the wrong impression by sending them inaccurate signals about likely program parameters.

From a policy perspective, H.R. 3950 includes provisions for commodity subsidies that would reverse the strides toward market orientation made in the 1985 Food Security Act.

The commodity provisions of H.R. 3950 would cost $55 billion over the next five years, $1 billion over current law baseline, and $19 billion over the Administration's budget proposal. Equally important is the fact that the bill would greatly increase the likelihood of budget outlays beyond $55 billion.

The Administration strongly opposes the nutrition title of H.R. 3950 as currently drafted. The program expansions are estimated to exceed the current law baseline by $543 million in FY 1991 and almost 
 over five years. These costs are in 
 to the current law baseline growth of 16 percent or $2.5 billion, from FY 1990 to FY 1991.

Such an expansion is totally inconsistent with the deficit reduction being sought in the ongoing budget summit and is an example of the type of mandatory cost expansion that has fostered the current crisis. The bill should reauthorize nutrition programs consistent with the Administration's proposals and any subsequent bipartisan budget agreement.

The bill authorizes another $25 billion for programs in foreign food assistance, science and education, conservation, forestry, and marketing and inspection. Spending at this level would exceed the five-year current law baseline by $3 billion.

Considering these authorizations along with direct spending on commodity and food assistance programs, the bill would add $9.4 billion to the current law baseline over the next five years.

While we generally support the Agriculture Committee's actions with respect to foreign food aid programs, the Administration has concerns with a number of provisions of the trade title proposed by the Foreign Affairs Committee.

With respect to the export assistance program provisions of the Foreign Affairs Committee version, the Administration believes funding for the newly established Market Promotion Program should be reduced from $325 million annually to $200 million annually, the level contained in the Agriculture Committee version. The Administration also opposes reporting requirements under the Long-Term Trade Strategy Report which duplicate existing reports. Finally, the Administration opposes the Market Development Task Force because it duplicates the activities of the recently established Trade Promotion Coordination Committee (TPCC). The TPCC is an interagency working group which will coordinate and streamline trade promotion assistance for all types of goods and services, including agriculture.

The Administration also has serious objections to provisions in H.R. 3950 apart from the commodity, food assistance, and trade titles.
