

The Administration strongly opposes enactment of H.R. 3750 because it would aggravate many of the worst features of the existing campaign financing system. The Democratic leadership's campaign reform program would result in nothing more than a taxpayer financed incumbent protection plan. If H.R. 3750 is presented to the President in its current form, his senior advisers will recommend a veto.



The current campaign financing system is seriously in need of reform. In 1989, the President proposed a comprehensive reform package that confronts the twin evils of the current system — (1) practices which give incumbents unfair advantages, and (2) the role played by special interest political action committees (PACs) subsidized by labor unions, trade associations, and corporations.

Campaign finance reform must also: (1) employ neutral principles that foster free competition in ideas without threatening freedom of speech; (2) encourage participation at the grass roots level, especially by individual constituents; and (3) not be financed by the taxpayers.

H.R. 3750 is incompatible with the President's proposals and these key principles. H.R. 3770, the "Fair and Competitive Election Act of 1991," introduced by Rep. Michel, is designed to make elections much more competitive, and return control of elections to voters by reducing the reliance on Washington based special interest and political action committees.



The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 3750 because it would:



H.R. 3750 would require the Office of Management and Budget to prepare within five days of its enactment a "conditional pay-as- you-go estimate" for purposes of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1990. The estimate would have to assume that the spending provisions of the bill become effective. The estimate would take effect for OBRA purposes on January 1, 1993, only if the costs of the bill had been offset by subsequent legislation as required by H.R. 3750.

Provisions of H.R. 3750 relating to contribution limits, matching funds, and campaign surpluses, would not take effect unless, on January 1, 1993, each of the following conditions had been met: (1) enactment of a statute that raises revenue or reduces spending, and states that the provision has been enacted for the purpose of effectuating H.R. 3750; and (2) the pay-as-you-go savings from this later enactment are equal or greater to the costs estimated in the "conditional pay-as-you-go estimate" required by the bill.

OMB's preliminary estimate is that the "conditional pay-as-you-go estimate" required by the bill would show increased FY 1994 outlays of $23 million. This estimate is based on the 1990 House campaign experience. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from this estimate.

Regardless of whether the conditions described above were met, H.R. 3750 would also result in additional budget authority (BA) and outlays from the Postal Service revenue foregone appropriation. These BA and outlays would not be scored for pay- as-you-go purposes, but would have to be included in the discretionary caps. OMB's preliminary estimate is that the increase in BA and outlays would be $12 million in FY 1994 and $14 million in FY 1996.