

The Administration and Congress worked together in 1990 to enact the National Affordable Housing Act (NAHA), the first major housing authorization bill in almost a decade. The Administration is committed to maintaining and improving the new directions in housing policy established by NAHA.

The Administration's fundamental housing objectives today are the same as they were in 1990: (1) authorizing the Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere (HOPE) program at meaningful funding levels; (2) securing the financial soundness of the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) single-family insurance fund; (3) directing housing resources more effectively to the neediest poor families; (4) increasing the power of poor people in the housing marketplace; and (5) maintaining fiscal responsibility.

H.R. 5334, however, would wastefully spend scarce housing resources and reverse many of the bipartisan compromises that led to the enactment of NAHA. The bill fails to address any of the Administration's objectives outlined above, takes no action on key Administration initiatives to improve NAHA, and weakens safeguards against housing fraud. 
.

Specifically, H.R. 5334 fails to address Administration objectives because it would:

In addition, H.R. 5334 ignores key Administration initiatives that would: (1) allow public housing residents of troubled projects to choose alternative managers and owners; (2) restore vacant public housing to productive use; and (3) break down regulatory barriers to affordable housing.



Enactment of H.R. 5334 would result in a net decrease in receipts for FYs 1993-1997; therefore, the bill is subject to the pay-as- you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (OBRA). Increasing the limit on FHA mortgages would increase receipts, while eliminating the regulation that allows FHA borrowers to finance a maximum of 57 percent of closing costs would decrease receipts.

OMB's preliminary scoring estimates for this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from this estimate. If H.R. 5334 were enacted, final OMB scoring estimates would be published five days after enactment as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending will be issued in monthly reports transmitted to Congress.


Estimates for Pay-As-You-Go
($ in millions)

