

The Administration has consistently supported legislation to ensure the financial safety and soundness of Government-sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). Many provisions of S. 2733 are consistent with this goal. However, some provisions limit unacceptably the President's authority to oversee the regulatory framework that the bill would establish. The Managers' amendment includes provisions that would remove or modify acceptably some of these provisions. (The Administration's concerns with these provisions are addressed in the Justice Department's April 7th letter to the Banking Committee. The Department indicated that the Attorney General would recommend a veto of S. 2733 if it were presented to the President in its current form.) If these Managers' amendment provisions are adopted, the Administration will support Senate passage of S. 2733, and seek to resolve its remaining objections to the bill in conference.

The Administration continues to oppose provisions of S. 2733 that make it inconsistent with the following three principles: (1) establishing a strong capital standard that includes appropriate risk-based measures; (2) authorizing the Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO) to take prompt and effective enforcement actions to ensure both safe operation of the enterprises and compliance with statutory housing requirements; and (3) ensuring that the current general regulatory authority of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) over the housing GSEs is not eroded. The Administration will continue to work with Congress to improve the bill consistent with these principles as described below.











The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) requires that all revenue and direct spending legislation meet a pay-as-you-go requirement. That is, no such bill should result in an increase in the deficit; and if it does, it will trigger a sequester lf it is not fully offset. The Office of Management and Budget estimates that this bill will have a net zero PAYGO effect. Thus, considered alone, this bill meets the PAYGO requirement of OBRA. 