

Although the Administration supports consideration of Bankruptcy Code revisions, it strongly opposes enactment of S. 1985.

S. 1985 creates a new Bankruptcy Code chapter for small businesses which is badly flawed, as described below. The bill also contains a number of other objectionable provisions, which are described in the Attachment.



S. 1985 would create a new Bankruptcy Code chapter for small businesses intended to provide an alternative to the current business reorganization accorded by Chapter 11. The Administration does not oppose a new chapter to address the special issues arising in small business reorganizations.

However, the Administration strongly opposes this small business chapter because it would:



The Administration supports many of the provisions in S. 1985 relating to the treatment of pension benefits in bankruptcy and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.



S. 1985 would affect direct spending and receipts; therefore, it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA). A budget point of order applies in both the House and Senate against any bill that is not fully offset under CBO scoring in each year. If, contrary to the Administration's recommendation, the Senate waives any such point of order that applies against S. 1985, the effects of enactment of this legislation would be included in a look back pay-as-you- go sequester report at the end of the Congressional session.

OMB's preliminary scoring estimates are given below. If S. 1985 were enacted, final OMB scoring estimates would be published within five days of enactment, as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending will be issued in monthly reports transmitted to the Congress.

 

 


ESTIMATE FOR PAY-AS-YOU-GO
(outlays in millions)








The Administration strongly opposes provisions of S. 1985 that would:



The Administration strongly opposes provisions of S. 1985 that would:



S. 1985 creates a Bankruptcy Review Commission to consider potential Code reforms. The Administration is concerned that creation of such a commission not delay enactment of urgently needed Code amendments. 