

This statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 5504, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, FY 1993, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.

The Administration opposes language of the Committee bill that would permit abortions to be performed at U.S. military facilities in cases other than when the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. The President has stated that he would veto any legislation that would weaken current law or regulation with respect to abortion-related activities. Therefore, if the provision of the Committee bill were to be included in the bill ultimately presented to the President, the President would veto the bill.

Similar language was included in the Senate version of the FY 1992 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill but was deleted in Conference. The Administration hopes that the bill will move forward through the legislative process so that necessary changes could be made to gain Administration support. These would include dropping the abortion-related provision and responding to the other objections discussed below.



The Administration regrets that the committee has provided funds for unrequested programs at the expense of higher priority programs. As discussed below, the Administration believes that these increases should be re-directed to high priority programs of significance to national security.

The Committee bill would provide unrequested funding for several programs, including the following:

While providing unrequested additions for these programs, the committee has reduced funding from the President's requested levels for a number of key defense programs. The Committee's recommendations would:

The Administration urges the House to restore funding of $8 billion that was cut from the Administration's request. In addition, the House is urged to re-direct funding provided by the Committee for unrequested programs to these programs that are of critical importance to the objectives of our national security policy.



The Administration objects to several language provisions of the Committee bill:



The Administration would urge the House to reject potential amendments that would reduce consultant services by $200 million and warehousing funds by $.5 billion:



Based on a preliminary review, a number of provisions in the Committee bill, particularly portions of the Defense Reinvestment for Economic Growth programs, may be appropriately classified as domestic discretionary under the Budget Enforcement Act (BEA). The Office of Management and Budget ls reviewing the language in the bill and report to determine which provisions should be classified as domestic discretionary spending.

The bill contains language that would provide an indemnification guarantee for any State or a subdivision of a state obtaining real property upon the closure of a military installation. This provision would provide payment by the Federal Government for environmental cleanup or associated costs caused by contamination attributable to the Department of Defense. This is direct spending in an appropriations bill and should be scored against the Appropriations Committee. 