

The Administration strongly supports the enactment of comprehensive national energy legislation that will implement the Administration's National Energy Strategy of February 20, 1991, and provide for economic growth, increased energy security, and environmental protection. Such legislation should encourage increased energy efficiency; reform unnecessary regulation of electricity generation, natural gas and nuclear power; increase the use of alternative fuels; provide for environmentally responsible development of additional domestic energy sources; and allow sustained economic growth. The Administration has proposed, and the Senate has adopted, legislation that would achieve this critical balance.

In his letter of April 20, 1992, the President encouraged the House of Representatives to follow the Senate's lead and pass balanced energy legislation. The letter also identified certain provisions which would not be acceptable: the imposition of new taxes; the imposition of inflexible and burdensome regulatory review procedures; provisions that would effectively prevent the construction and relicensing of nuclear power plants; restrictions on oil and gas development on the Outer Continental Shelf; mandating market shares for certain fuels; and limiting economic growth by mandating targets and timetables for greenhouse gas emission levels. 
.

H.R. 776, as reported by the House Energy and Commerce Committee and amended by the Committee on Ways and Means, provides a good bipartisan basis for the development of an acceptable bill in conference. In particular, the Administration strongly supports the Ways and Means Committee amendments to provide relief from the alternative minimum tax for independent oil and gas producers and to strike the proposed in-kind tax on petroleum for the strategic petroleum reserve.

The Administration strongly opposes several provisions of H.R. 776, as well as amendments which have been added by other Committees; some of which would meet the criteria set by the President as being unacceptable. If these provisions are not dropped from the legislation or substantially modified, the President's senior advisers would recommend a veto. Examples of such provisions, listed by Committee, include:







In addition to the objections noted above, the Department of Justice advises that H.R. 776, and the proposed amendments contain a number of provisions which raise constitutional concerns. The Administration will work to resolve these issues in conference.



Several provisions of H.R. 776 would increase direct spending or reduce receipts; therefore it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1990. A budget point of order applies in both the House and the Senate against any bill that is not fully offset under CBO scoring. If, contrary to the Administration's recommendation, the House waives any such point of order that applies against H.R. 776, the effects of enactment of this legislation would be included in a look back pay-as-you-go sequester report at the end of the congressional session.

OMB's preliminary scoring estimates for a position of this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from these estimates. If H.R. 776 were enacted, final OMB scoring estimates would be published within five days of enactment, as required by OBRA. The cumulative effects of all enacted legislation on direct spending will be issued in monthly reports transmitted to Congress. The scoring is not complete because estimates of the Ways and Means provisions are not yet available.

The Administration strongly opposes several other provisions as they appear either in the Energy and Commerce Committee version of H.R. 776 or in amendments adopted by other Committees. If a sufficient number of these item are not addressed, the President's senior advisers may recommend a veto. These items are discussed in the attachment.


(dollars in millions)




The provisions in Title XIV regarding Strategic Petroleum Reserve oil acquisition are ambiguous and could be interpreted in several ways, including as a legislative taking or as a new tax. Under the Budget Enforcement Act, a legislative taking would be scored as an increase in direct spending, requiring PAYGO offsets, while a new tax and spend requirement would be scored on the basis of its effect on net outlays. In addition, the bill also contains language that could be interpreted in a manner that would result in scoring this provision as discretionary spending. However, the language in title XIV is extremely ambiguous, and the Office of Management and Budget has not reached a final conclusion on scoring.




The following are further examples of objectionable provisions offered by various Committees in the context of H.R. 776. If a sufficient number of these provisions are not addressed, the President's senior advisers may recommend a veto of the bill.











Science, Space and Technology Committee
