The rapid increase of population in the national capital within recent years has greatly altered social conditions, necessitating changes in the machinery of its administration. Greater efficiency and a better provision for the protection of both the industrial and dependent classes are required.
Recognizing these needs, I have had a special report made to me on the affairs of the District of Columbia, which I transmit herewith. I cordially approve the recommendations in the report for the substitution of a single head or governor in place of three commissioners, the establishment of district or municipal departments in place of the existing bureaus, and the creation of a new department to be known as that of housing and labor. I ask your careful consideration of the entire report. Mr. Reynolds has rendered a great and disinterested service, for which our heartiest thanks are due him.
A single executive head would increase efficiency, determine responsibility, and eliminate delays and uncertainties inevitable under the present system. Municipal departments headed by commissioners to be appointed by the governor would yield the same advantage.
In the proposed scheme of reorganization the department of education should be coordinated with other city departments.
I especially urge that the proposed department of housing and labor be established. Poverty, disease, and crime are largely due to defects of social conditions and surroundings. The need of improved sanitary inspection of dwellings, rear alleys, and small shacks (such as, unhappily, still exist in Washington), and of stores, workshops, and factories should not be left to subordinate bureau chiefs, but should be brought under the direct control of a competent head of the above-named department.
An equally important public responsibility is the protection of the independent industrial class, which neither desires nor accepts charity, but whose members have often been led to misfortune, and even crime, through agencies licensed by the state, but defectively and inadequately supervised. Notable among these are pawnshops, loan and industrial insurance companies, and employment agencies. The supervision of these agencies is at present limited to the police. They should be under the direction of officials qualified to advance their efficiency and economic service to the public.
The above-named changes would vastly improve the efficiency of the District government, and would afford protection to its industrial and dependent classes which is imperatively needed.
I also transmit for the consideration of the Congress reports of the Committee on Building of Model Houses, which was appointed in accordance with the recommendation of Mr. Reynolds.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT.