 How soon do you think for the signing, Mr. President?
 Early next week, I hope. We're working on it.
 And what about the compromise? Are you satisfied with the kind of compromise the Republicans want to bring to a vote?
 They asked for the right to bring it to a vote and to know that it wouldn't be vetoed if they could pass it. We all agreed, all of us together, that that was acceptable.
 Do you think the Republicans were afraid to go home to their districts this weekend without reaching some kind of agreement?
 I think the American people would have been real disappointed if Congress had gone home without this bill. And I think they'll be very happy now. It's a great Thanksgiving present.
[
]
 Hello, Senator Mitchell, how are you doing? Mr. Speaker?
 [
]
 You sure are. I told you last night, see.
 [
]
 Well, we are delighted. I am here with the Vice President, Attorney General Reno, and Jim and Sarah Brady in the Oval Office, and we're all happy as can be. And we thank you very much for a wonderful session of Congress and a wonderful ending.
 [
]—back to health care next year.
 A lot of work to be done next year, Mr. President, we're going to look forward to working with you on.
 And we're ready to roll, and we're very grateful to you. You have a good Thanksgiving and a good Christmas.
 I'd like to put on Bob Michel here just to say a word to you.
 And Bob Dole as well——
 Please do.
 ——without whose cooperation we could not have achieved this result today.
 Hi, Mr. President, this is Bob Michel speaking.
 Hello, Bob.
 Bob Dole——
 Hi, Bob. Thank you both very much.
 Well, we think it was kind of a capstone of the whole session to get the Brady bill behind us. As I indicated yesterday, I thought we could do it if we just hung in there.
 Well, it worked out, and all of us are very pleased and very grateful. And I'm especially glad that we're ending this session on two measures where there was substantial bipartisan support for the progress that we're making. And I'm very appreciative of it, grateful to both of you. I hope you have a good holiday.
 Same to you, Mr. President.
 Yeah, thank you very much, Mr. President.
 Take care of that shoulder, Bob.
 [
]—I would have to agree with the assessment. It got confrontational at times, but it's nice to leave in an amicable mood when we're talking the same language. We'll be back next year.
 Can't wait to see you.
 Happy Thanksgiving to both you and Mrs. Clinton.
 Thank you.
 Goodbye, sir.
 Goodbye, Mr. Speaker.
 Okay, thank you again, Mr. President. Have a good Thanksgiving.
 Thank you, Senator Mitchell.
 Talk to you soon.
 Bless you. Bye-bye.
[
]
 I would just like to say before we leave, on behalf of the Vice President and the Attorney General and myself, that we believe very passionately in the Brady bill. As all of you who were involved in the campaign know, I spoke about it at every campaign stop and every country crossroads in this country. But none of this would have ever happened if it hadn't been for the courage and dedication and constancy of Jim and Sarah Brady. They worked for 7 years for this day. This is their victory, and I'm glad to be a small part of it.
And I hope that it means what I believe it does, which is that the American people are serious about our doing something about mindless violence, about the terrible conditions under which our young people are laboring, where so many of the children are being shot, weapons of mass destruction that they shouldn't even have in the cities or anywhere else in this country. And I hope this is the beginning of our effort to rebuild the fabric of this country from the grassroots up.
Our administration is dedicated to that. The Attorney General has spent her life working on it. And if this is the beginning of what I think it is, then the entire Nation owes Jim and Sarah Brady even more than for the Brady bill; they have changed the focus of our Nation. It's high time. It took them too many years to do it. What a wonderful Thanksgiving for them. And we are thankful for them. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Mr. President.