The President today announced his appointment of 38 men and women to Senior Executive Service posts in his administration. "I am proud today to name these hard-working men and women to posts in my administration," the President said.
N. Cinnamon Dornsife, Alternate Executive Director
Gary Bachula, Deputy Under Secretary for Technology Administration
Keith Calhoun-Senghor, Director of the Office of Space Commerce
Michele C. Farquhar, Director of the Office of Policy Coordination and Management, National Telecommunications and Information Administration
Katherine W. Kimball, Deputy Assistant Secretary for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Paul L. Rosenberg, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Planning for the International Trade Administration
Jonathan M. Silver, Assistant Deputy Secretary
Cheryl P. Bowen, Executive Director of the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve
Joan Kelly Horn, Chair of the Reinvestment Assistance Task Force
Josephine S. Huang, Assistant Deputy Under Secretary for Environmental Security
Clark A. Murdock, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Plans
David Ochmanek, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Resources and Plans
Eugene E. Garcia, Director of the Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs
Thomas Hehir, Director for Special Education Programs
Jana Sawyer Prewitt, Special Assistant to the Director for Communications, Office of Public Affairs
Lee Jackson, Alternate Executive Director
Cynthia A. Metzler, Associate Administrator
Faye Baggiano, Associate Administrator for Communications, Health Care Financing Administration
Lavinia Limon, Director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families
Donald Sykes, Director of the Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families
Sally R. Richardson, Director of the Medicaid Bureau, Health Care Financing Administration
Michael S. Wald, Deputy General Counsel
Robert Williams, Director of the Administration for Developmental Disabilities, Administration for Children and Families
Robert P. Davison, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks
Cynthia L. Quarterman, Deputy Director of the Minerals Management Service
Michael J. Anderson, Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs
Patricia Wilkerson Garamendi, Administrative Director of Volunteer Recruitment
Richard Hernandez, Counselor to the Administrator John T. Spotila, General Counsel
Bennett Freeman, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs
Cathy Elizabeth Dalpino, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs
Mark R. Steinberg, Counselor on International Law, Office of the Legal Adviser
Jose R. Padilla, Associate Customs Commissioner for Congressional and Public Affairs, U.S. Customs Service
Floyd L. Williams III, Senior Tax Adviser for Public and Legislative Affairs
Dietra L. Ford, Executive Director
Michael Mahdesian, Senior Advisor for the Bureau of Food and Humanitarian Assistance, Agency for International Development
Alejandro J. Palacios, Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Agency for International Development
Robert L. Schiffer, Director of the Office of Special Projects