

This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2493, the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 2493 and will work with Congress to address the concerns described below and in the attachment.



The Administration is pleased that the Committee has agreed with the House and has fully funded the food safety and Food and Drug Administration proposals. The Committee bill also would fund the President's other investment proposals above the levels provided by the House. The Administration commends the Committee for its support of the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and for adopting the President's goal to fund the WIC program fully by the end of FY 1996. We urge the Senate to approve the Administration's FY 1994 proposal.



The Administration urges the Senate not to alter current law by again restricting sign-ups for the Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP). The 1990 farm bill establishes a target of one million acres to be enrolled in the WRP by the end of FY 1995. The Administration has proposed to fund 450,000 acres in FY 1994 toward this target, but the Committee bill would allow only 25,000 acres to be enrolled. This restriction is particularly troublesome Since FY 1993 sign-ups were blocked by the FY 1993 appropriations act.

The WRP is a crucial part of the Administration's wetlands restoration and preservation plans, and the Administration believes that full funding for this mandatory program should be restored. At a minimum, appropriations action should be consistent with both the House and Senate versions of the 1993 reconciliation bill, which prescribe that a minimum of 330,000 wetlands acres be enrolled by the end of calendar year 1995. The Administration is aware of the Committee's concern with WRP's high per-acre costs, and will work with the Committee to contain per-acre costs.



The Committee has chosen to fund earmarked special research grants at the expense of Agriculture's National Research Initiative, a competitively awarded grant program. These earmarked special grants would address primarily local and parochial research issues, rather than problems of national significance facing the nation's food, agricultural, and environmental sectors. The Administration believes that the most appropriate way to allocate scarce research funds is through a competitive process based on merit in which any research institution can apply.



The President has established a goal of reducing Federal employment (FTE) cumulatively from the FY 1993 enacted levels by 2.5 percent in FY 1994 and four percent in FY 1995 (a total of 100,000 FTE). Reducing Federal employment, combined with other initiatives to reinvent and streamline the Federal government, should not be constrained by restrictions such as section 712 of the Committee bill. This section would impose employment floors for the Food and Drug Administration, the Farmers Home Administration, the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, the Rural Electrification Administration, and the Soil Conservation Service. The Administration urges the Senate to delete this provision.



The Committee bill includes a provision that would permit the Food and Drug Administration to collect and use $175 million in user fees requested in the President's budget, as well as $54 million in prescription drug user fees authorized by the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. The Administration strongly supports this action by the Committee and urges the Senate to approve it.

Additional Administration concerns with the Committee bill are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment
(Senate Floor)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Senate to address the following concerns:




