

This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2493, the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 2493 and will work with Congress to address the concerns described below and in the attachment.



The Administration supports the Committee's action that funds many of the President's investment proposals, including full funding for the food safety and Food and Drug Administration proposals. The Administration commends the Committee for its support of the Women, Infants, and Children program.



The Administration urges the House not to alter current law by again restricting sign-ups for the Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP). The 1990 farm bill requires a minimum of one million acres to be enrolled in the WRP by the end of FY 1995. The Administration has proposed to fund 450,000 acres in FY 1994 toward this target, but the Committee bill would allow only 50,000 acres to be enrolled. This restriction is particularly troublesome since FY 1993 sign-ups were blocked by the FY 1993 appropriations act. The WRP is a crucial part of the Administration's wetlands restoration and preservation plans, and the Administration believes that full funding for this mandatory program should be restored. At a minimum, appropriations action should be consistent with both the House and Senate versions of the 1993 reconciliation bill, which prescribe that a minimum of 330,000 wetlands acres be enrolled by the end of FY 1995.



The Committee has chosen to fund earmarked special research grants at the expense of the National Research Initiative, the competitively awarded grant program. These earmarked special grants would address primarily local and parochial research issues, rather than problems of national significance facing the nation's food, agricultural, and environmental sectors. The Administration believes that the most appropriate way to allocate scarce research funds is through a competitive process based on merit in which any research institution can apply.

Additional Administration concerns with the Committee bill are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment
(House Floor)








The administration looks forward to working with the Congress later in the process in an effort to address the following concerns:




