

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4650, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 4650 and will work with Congress to address the concerns described below.

The Administration appreciates the support the Committee has provided for the President's requests, particularly the support provided for the President's investment initiatives — the Technology Reinvestment Project and the Office of Economic Adjustment. The Committee bill provides funds for many other key- national security programs, including: (1) readiness (including funding for the Defense Business Operations Fund); (2) the CVN-76 and other shipbuilding programs; (3) the B-2 Bomber, F/A-18 C/D, F-22, V-22, and E-SB Joint STARS aircraft, and RAH-66 Comanche helicopter; and (4) defense reinvestment.



However, the Committee bill would provide funding levels in some programs and activities that are inconsistent with the President's request. In several instances, the bill would reduce funding below the requested level. For example, the bill would:



At the same time that it has made these reductions to the President's request, the Committee has provided over $2 billion in unrequested funding. The Committee bill would:

The Administration urges the House to redirect funding from unrequested programs to programs of higher priority, consistent with the President's request.



The Committee bill contains some objectionable, unwarranted language provisions. The Administration urges the House to eliminate provisions that would:



According to the Committee report, the bill would provide funds for a military pay raise of 2.6 percent and civilian pay raises totaling 3.4 percent. The President's budget includes sufficient funds to provide a pay raise averaging 1.6 percent for both military personnel and Federal civilian employees. It is the Administration's preference to provide this 1.6 percent pay raise. However, if the 2.6 percent pay raise for military personnel currently provided for in the DOD authorization bill is approved, then the Administration does not object to a pay raise averaging 2.6 percent for civilian personnel, as contained in the House-passed Treasury/Postal Service appropriations bill.