

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4554, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Hill, FT 1995, as reported by the Senate Appropriations committee.

The Administration supports the Committee-reported H.R. 4554. The Administration appreciates the Committee's support for the President/s investment priorities. In particular, the Administration is pleased with funding provided for the Women, Infants, and children (WIC) Program and for Electronic Benefit Transfers.

The Administration has some concerns with the Committee bill, which are discussed below.



The Administration is pleased that the Committee bill would allow the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to increase its collection of prescription drug user fees to $79 million — up from $54 million in FY 1994 i and would provide for $151 million in general user fees. The Administration notes that FDA could collect another $100 million in general user fees, collection of these fees would permit increased funding of Presidential investments and other key items under the Committee's jurisdiction.



The Committee has not funded $213 million for the administrative expense reimbursements from the Department of Agriculture to private crop insurance companies. Without these reimbursements, private companies would not sell or adjust crop insurance policies.

The committee assumes that the Agriculture committees would authorize mandatory spending to pay for these expense reimbursements. However, this assumption is not consistent with the Administration's crop insurance reform proposal and would result in additional direct spending of over $200 million in FY 199S that would be associated with the reform proposal. This could render the reform proposal subject to a point of order under "pay-as-you-go 1' rules and mate crop insurance reform unachievable this year.

The Administration urges the Senate to fund these administrative expense reimbursements or, alternatively, either to provide explicit authority for the mandatory crop Insurance Fund to make these reimbursements or work to find an appropriate PAYGO offset, without changes that are consistent with enactment of the reform proposal, the Committee's action could effectively terminate the crop insurance program in FY 1995.

Additional Administration concerns with the Committee-reported hill are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment
 (Senate Floor)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress later in the process in an effort to address the following concerns:


