 Mr. President?
 Harold, how are you?
 Just fine, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
 It's great to hear your voice.
 It's great to be here. Can everybody hear me? Can you hear the President?
Okay, Mr. President, we've got a nice crowd here, and we're getting ready to light this lighthouse in memory and to remember Mark Twain, on behalf of Mark Twain, our favorite son.
 Let me say, first of all, I'm glad to be back in Hannibal again, at least by telephone. I had a wonderful, wonderful visit there.
 Yes, we well remember, and we're almost in the very same spot that you were in at that time, just a little bit up the street, not very far.
 Well, I'm a great admirer of Mark Twain, and I read him as a boy and read him as an adult. So I'm very happy to be part of it. And I know that President Roosevelt in 1935 and President Kennedy in 1963 also played a role in this memorial lighthouse. So I'm glad to be a part of that history of your community. And I'm also glad to be back with all the enthusiastic people who live there. I remember them so well, and I want to congratulate you and the citizens of Hannibal and Marion County and also the Missouri Department of Natural Resources for all the work you've done to restore the lighthouse. It really symbolizes the community and your vision and the great history of Mark Twain.
[
]
 I'm really glad to be here. My family and I are up in Camp David, and we're having a wonderful time and looking forward to celebrating our Nation's birthday and watching our soccer team play. But I'm really glad I got to do this. I love Hannibal. I think it's one of the greatest places I've been. And as I said, it's captured my imagination ever since I was a little boy. So I'm delighted to be a part of this.
[
]
 Are you going to light the candle, is that what you're going to do? Everybody going to light a candle?
 Well, we're ready. I'd like to—for you to, if you have——
 I've got it.
[
]
 Hello.
 Hello, Karol. Congratulations on all the work you've done. You're the director of the Main Street Program, aren't you?
 I am——
 I love that program. And I tell you, you've done a wonderful job there.
 Well, thank you. I wish I could take all the credit, but I can't. It's truly a community effort. We have a great crew behind us, a great Main Street Program, and great architects, and we've done it together.
 Good for you. Well, I'm glad to be a part of it. And I'm really glad that Congressman Volkmer gave me a chance to call in tonight.
 Well, we sure appreciate his assistance on this project as well.
 Thank you.
 Are we ready to light it?
 Are you ready? I've got a candle here.
 Okay, I'm going to hand you back to Congressman Volkmer.
 All right, Mr. President.
 You'll have to visualize my candle, folks, but I've got one here.
[
]
 I remember the mayor well, yes.
[
]
 That's good. Well, tell Shirley and your grandchildren hello. I know it's good to have them there for the Fourth of July.
 Yes, it is. The grandchildren jumped frogs this morning, and they're going to be in a parade come Monday.
 They jumped frogs, is that——
 Oh yes. Yes, we have a frog-jumping contest.
 I used to be in one of those every year.
 Is that right?
 Yes, we've got a ferry about 30 miles from Little Rock, in Arkansas, called Toad Suck Ferry. And every year we had a Toad Suck Day, and we all raced our frogs.
 Very good.
 I never won, but I always loved it. I competed every year, but I never won.
 All right, they're ready to go.
 We're ready.
 Anytime you're ready to light, we're ready to light.
 I have just lit my candle.
 Very good. Let's see if it works.
 I've always believed it was better to light a candle than curse the darkness. Now, the whole town of Hannibal's done the same thing.
 Yes, that's right, and we're all waiting, and it's coming closer, and it's coming closer—there's one more. The switch should go—ahh, there it is.
 Good for you.
 All right, there it is, Mr. President. Thank you very, very much, Mr. President. Tell Hillary hello for us.
 I'll do it. Thank you, Congressman.
 And you all have a real nice Fourth.
 Tell everybody hello. Thank you, and God bless you.
 Thank you very much.
 Goodbye.