

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4556, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1995, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.

The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 4554 as reported by the Committee. The Administration appreciates the Committee's support for the President's investment priorities. In particular, the Administration is pleased with funding provided for the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program.

The Administration has some concerns with the Committee bill, which are discussed below.



The Administration is pleased that the Committee bill would allow the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to increase its collection of prescription drug user fees to $79 million — up from $54 million in FY 1994. The Administration notes that FDA could collect another $252 million in general user fees if restrictive language were deleted from the bill. Collection of these fees would permit increased funding of Presidential investments and other key items under the Committee's jurisdiction, such as the Federal crop insurance program.



The Committee has not funded $213 million for the administrative expense reimbursements from the Department of Agriculture to private crop insurance companies. Without these reimbursements, private companies would not sell or adjust crop insurance policies.

The Committee assumes that the Agriculture Committees would authorize mandatory spending to pay for these expense reimbursements. However, this assumption is not consistent with the Administration's crop insurance reform proposal and would result in additional direct spending of over $200 million in FY 1995 that would be associated with the reform proposal. This would render the reform proposal subject to a point of order under "pay-as-you-go" rules and make crop insurance reform unachievable this year.

The Administration urges the House to fund these administrative expense reimbursements or, alternatively, to provide explicit authority for the mandatory Crop Insurance Fund to make these reimbursements — with a subsequent corresponding downward adjustment in the BEA discretionary caps. Without these changes that are consistent with enactment of the reform proposal, the Committee's action would effectively terminate the crop insurance program in FY 1995.



The Committee has provided $47 million for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), a reduction of 8.5 percent from the President's budget request of $52 million. This agency, the sole Federal regulator of the exchange-traded derivatives markets, has received no appropriation increase in three years despite the fact that: (1) the volume of exchange-traded derivatives traded on U.S. futures exchanges has grown 14 percent a year since FY 1986, and grew 16 percent from FY 1992 to FY 1993 alone; and (2) the CFTC gained heightened responsibilities under the Futures Trading Practices Act of 1992. The Administration urges the House to provide the CFTC with adequate funds with which to oversee these increasingly important and complex markets.

Additional Administration concerns with the Committee-reported bill are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment
 (House Rules)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress later in the process on an effort to address the following concerns:


