

The Administration strongly supports prompt passage of H.R. 4092, which embodies the central elements of the President's anti-crime legislative agenda. This critical legislation will enable the Federal Government to play a significantly enhanced role in the Nation's fight against the crime and violence that plague too many of our communities.

Passage of H.R. 4092 will assist the States and localities in their efforts against violent crime — particularly in the critical areas of police, prisons, and prevention. In addition, H.R. 4092 will provide necessary tools to Federal law enforcement officials, improving their effectiveness in combating violent crime. The bill will expand and advance proven crime prevention programs in an unprecedented way.

H.R. 4092 contains key elements of the President's anti-crime program, including:

—        Proven and extensive crime prevention programs, to give kids something to say "yes" to (discussed below);

—        Boot camps for youthful offenders, as a second-chance for kids who get off-track;

—        Drug courts to get drug users turned around before they commit more serious crimes;

—        A ban on juvenile gun possession; and

—        For hardened young criminals, the authority to try 13- year olds as adults for serious violent offenses. 
—        The President's "three strikes and you're out" life imprisonment provision, which is targeted on the career violent offenders who do so much violent harm.

—        Reinstating the Federal death penalty for the most heinous offenses, including the killing of Federal law enforcement officers. 
—        The President's "YES" program (Youth Employment and Skills), to give employment opportunities to kids in hard-hit, high-crime areas;

—       "Ounce of Prevention" programs to keep schools open after hours and to expand after-school activities, like Boys and Girls clubs, that keep kids off the streets; and

—        Innovative alternatives like Midnight Sports and Police Partnerships with Youths.

Prevention programs make sense, and are an important part of any balanced attack on the crime and violence that plague our cities, towns, neighborhoods, and rural communities. 
The Administration supports Rep. Hoyer's amendment to authorize funds for increased Treasury law enforcement activities. Treasury's law enforcement bureaus have a crucial role to play in fighting street crime, gang violence, and smuggling, and in supporting gun control and State and local law enforcement. The inclusion of this amendment will complement the other provisions of H.R. 4092.

While the Administration does not agree with every program or provision in H.R. 4092, it firmly believes that, taken as a whole, the bill is a balanced approach to the problem of crime, and contains many much-needed crime-fighting measures. The Administration looks forward to working with the House to obtain prompt passage of this important legislation.