

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2099, the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Bill. FY 1996. as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.

The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. The President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending for FY 1996 by $5 billion in outlays below the FY 1995 enacted level. The Administration does not support the level of funding assumed by the House or Senate 602(b) allocations and must evaluate each bill both in terms of funding levels provided and the share of total resources available for remaining priorities. This bill is over $9 billion below the President's request.

While the Committee mark makes many improvements to the House-passed bill, the Administration strongly opposes several aspects of the Committee bill. The President would veto the bill if it were presented to him as reported by the committee.



The Committee bill would terminate the Corporation for National and Community Service, one of this Administration's top priorities. The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's decision to eliminate this important initiative and urges the Senate to provide funding at the requested level of $819 million. If the program were to be eliminated, nearly 50,000 young Americans would lose the opportunity to help their communities, through AmeriCorps, to address vital local needs such as health care, crime prevention, and education while at the same time earning a monetary award to help them pursue additional education or training. In addition, some 580,000 children, adolescents, and college students would lose the chance to serve their communities through the Learn and Serve program.



Compared to the House-passed bill, the Committee bill represents substantial progress on overall funding levels for HUD, and some progress in the consolidation of HUD's functions. The bill contains a series of provisions that would provide incentives to work to poor families receiving housing assistance, and help the Department and public housing authorities weed out the most distressed projects.

However, the Administration strongly opposes the excessive overall reduction of $4 billion made by the Committee to the President's request for HUD and is especially concerned over cuts in new incremental housing vouchers and homeless assistance. The Administration urges continuation of the 20-year bipartisan commitment to meet low-income housing needs by expanding the number of people receiving rental assistance. The Committee bill would provide less than one-half of the requested funding for new assistance. Moreover, the use of these funds would be largely restricted to families already receiving some form of assistance, and spending would be deferred until FY 1997. By the end of FY 1996, the effect of this delay would be a five-percent reduction in the number of families assisted.

The Committee bill would also reduce grants to assist communities in providing services to the homeless by $360 million, or 32 percent, relative to the FY 1995 level. The Administration is particularly troubled that funds would be severely reduced at the very moment that Congress, for the first time, would allow the funds to be distributed to States by formula.

As drafted, the Committee's proposal to convert severely distressed, obsolete public housing developments to tenant-based assistance would vest too much discretion in public housing authorities, with the likely outcome that most of the distressed housing would not be converted. Instead, the Secretary should have authority to require the conversion of public housing to vouchers in these limited cases as well as to recapture budget authority for those units and reuse it for replacement assistance.

The Administration also strongly objects to the provision that would prohibit HUD from spending funds to enforce fair housing laws against property insurance discrimination. See attachment for further details.



While the Committee bill contains significant improvements over the crippling reductions and environmental roll-backs included in the House bill, the Administration opposes the 23-percent overall reduction to the President's request for EPA. This reduction would significantly hamper the Federal Government's ability to protect public health and the environment.

Particularly objectionable is the 36-percent reduction in the Superfund program, which could result in continued risk of exposure to dangerous chemicals for hundreds of thousands of citizens living near hazardous waste sites. The Administration is also concerned about the Committee's 37-percent reduction in funding for Clean Water State Revolving Funds in light of a $137 billion backlog of wastewater funding needs.

In addition, the Administration strongly objects to the proposed reductions to the President's investment program for climate change, Montreal Protocol, and environmental technology. The 74-percent reduction in the climate change programs (including elimination of the "green programs"), would undermine EPA's highly successful voluntary and cooperative energy efficiency programs, which are integral to the Nation's effort to reduce air pollution and stabilize greenhouse gas emissions. The elimination of Montreal Protocol funding would slow efforts to restore the ozone layer, with major public health impacts. The reduction of more than 80-percent to environmental technology would virtually eliminate this program that is designed to reduce environmental control costs and stimulate U.S. export markets for environmental technology.

While less numerous than in the House-passed bill, the Administration objects to the Committee's inclusion of legislative riders in the bill. The Administration opposes the use of appropriations bills to overturn existing law in order to eater to special interests without any hearings on the national environmental impact of these riders.



The Administration has serious concerns about the Committee's overall funding recommendation for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), which is $1.3 billion below the President's request and almost $400 million below the level provided by the House bill. Over $1 billion of the Committee's cut would come from VA's medical programs, primarily Medical Care and Major Construction. The $511 million cut in Medical Care would impede VA's ability to provide quality medical care to thousands of veterans. The cut of $517 million in Major and Minor Construction would prevent VA from making necessary improvements to older facilities that no longer meet VA's patient care standards. It would also preclude VA from constructing two new hospitals, one at Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, California, and one in Brevard County, Florida.

The Administration also strongly objects to the provision that would eliminate compensation to incompetent veterans with no dependents and estates over $25,000. See attachment for further details.



The Administration prefers the Committee's proposed level of funding for NASA over the level provided by the House-passed bill. In particular, the Administration is pleased with the Committee's support for NASA's Mission to Planet Earth program. However, the Administration is concerned about the impact that the Committee's additional cuts would have on the shuttle program and the effect of delayed obligations on the space station. The Congress must realize that the delay of obligations means a delay in the overall station program. The Administration objects to this delay, not only because of international agreements, but also because of the adverse cost and schedule impacts. By introducing artificial and avoidable delay, the Committee's approach would also run counter to the Administration's policy to streamline this program.

The Administration would strongly oppose any amendment that would terminate, significantly reduce, or restrict funding for the space station, particularly with respect to cooperation with Russia. Such action would jeopardize over 30,000 space station- related jobs located in Florida, Texas, California, and Alabama. It would also significantly undermine the critical international partnerships that the U.S. has developed on this important, cooperative project.



The Administration strongly urges the Senate to reconsider the Committee's decision to terminate one of the most promising initiatives to aid distressed communities. The requested $144 million appropriation for Community Development Financial Institutions would leverage an estimated $600 million in investments, loans, and financial services.



The Administration supports the Committee's view that CEQ should not be terminated but strongly opposes the more than 50-percent reduction to the President's request. Such a reduction would severely hamper CEQ's ability to provide the President with advice on environmental policy issues and carry out its responsibilities under the National Environmental Policy Act.

Additional Administration concerns with the bill as reported by the Committee are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment (Senate Floor)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to address the following concerns.










