

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2127, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.

The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. The President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending for FY 1996 by $5 billion in outlays below the FY 1995 enacted level. At the same time, the President's budget increases funding for investment programs, a number of which are included in this bill, that are essential to economic growth and a higher standard of living for all Americans. The Administration does not support the level of funding assumed by the House or Senate Committee 602(b) allocations and urges the Congress to direct more funds to programs in this bill. The Administration supports reducing spending but does not share the priorities reflected in the Committee bill, which is over $10 billion below the President's request.

Many of the programs funded in this bill are aimed at protecting and aiding the most vulnerable in our society. While the Committee has restored some funding for these programs relative to the House, reductions proposed by the Committee would have a particularly harmful effect on our Nation's children, our youth, and the disadvantaged by cutting funding for numerous education programs, including Goals 2000, and for training programs, including summer jobs for low-income youth.

For these reasons, discussed more fully below, the President would veto the bill if it were presented to him as reported by the Committee.



The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's reduction in the Head Start program. This program plays a vital role in preparing disadvantaged young children for school; its expansion should be continued, not reversed. The President would add $400 million and 32,000 new slots to the Head Start program in FY 1996. The Committee, in contrast, would reduce funding by $133 million below the FY 1995 level ($533 million below the President's request). If program quality were to be maintained at such a reduced level, the Committee action would cut between 45,000 and 50,000 children from the program. The Administration strongly urges the Senate to provide FY 1996 funding at the level requested by the President.



The Administration is pleased that the Committee has supported an increased overall funding level for the Department of Education beyond the levels included in the House bill. Continued support for key programs in the Department of Education is essential for the future growth of our country. However, even with the Committee's increases, the bill would reduce spending for Education programs by $3.5 billion below the President's request. Many key programs would be cut below the FY 1995 levels and still further below the levels that the Nation's needs call for.

The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's decision to reduce funding for Education programs, including Goals 2000, Title I (Education for the Disadvantaged, and Safe and Drug-free Schools and Communities, by $1.5 billion below the FY 1995 level. At the Committee levels, thousands of schools would not get Federal aid to help them develop educational reforms to improve academic achievement for all students. More than 650,000 children from some of our poorest communities would be denied the assistance they need to benefit from educational reforms and challenging academic standards. And, millions of children would be deprived of the opportunity to learn in safe, drug-free schools.



The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's elimination of separate funding for the Summer Youth Employment and Training Program. The Committee's action would eliminate the opportunity for as many as 600,000 disadvantaged youth per year to acquire valuable job experience and learn essential job skills. As the President noted when he signed H.R. 1944, the Administration strongly supports this program and will work with the Congress to ensure that the program for the summer of 1996 is funded adequately in the FY 1996 appropriations process.

The Administration is pleased that the Committee has provided modest restorations of the House's drastic reductions to the President's request for the Department of Labor's youth job training programs and the bipartisan school-to-work initiative. Nevertheless, the Committee action would reduce youth training funding (including the Department of Education share of School- to-Work) by 42 percent, or $1.2 billion. Especially when it is more evident than ever that America's youth are not receiving enough opportunities to acquire the job skills necessary to succeed in today's economy, these reductions are unacceptable.

At a time of increased workforce anxiety and major labor market dislocations, the Committee bill would impose unacceptably large reductions in resources to retrain dislocated workers and low-income adults and help them find jobs through One-Stop Career Centers. The bill would reduce funding for dislocated workers and disadvantaged adults financed under the Job Training Partnership Act and for One-Stops by $604 million, or 26 percent, below the FY 1995 comparable level. The bill would cut $1.6 billion, or 48 percent, from the President's request and would deny training and reemployment services to 486,000 dislocated workers and 107,000 low-income adults. While corporate and military downsizing continues to displace hard-working Americans, shrinking these critical services is unconscionable.



The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's $62 million reduction below the request for the Corporation for National and Community Service programs funded in this bill. The Committee would cut the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program by 27 percent, reducing the number of VISTA volunteers working to alleviate poverty in low-income communities nationwide. The Committee level also would deny nearly 125,000 older Americans the opportunity to help the homebound elderly- disabled children, and others in their communities. The Administration urges the Senate to provide funding at the requested level.



The Administration is concerned that the Committee's mark for programs funded under the Ryan White CARE Act is $67 million less than the $723 million request. The funding level proposed by the President for the Ryan White program represents the minimum amount necessary to maintain funding for current and expected grantees while keeping up with increasing AIDS caseloads in States, cities, and local clinics currently receiving Ryan White grants. The Administration is pleased that the Committee has restored $8 million of the $16 million requested in FY 1996 for the AIDS Education and Training Centers (ETCs). The Administration urges the Senate to provide funding at the requested level.

The Administration is concerned that the Committee has not provided adequate funding for research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NTH) and urges the Senate to fund NIH at the President's request. The Administration appreciates the Committee's action to preserve the specific appropriation for NIH's Office of AIDS Research as requested by the Director of NIH in the President's budget.

The Administration objects to the Committee's proposed rescission of $53 million for childhood immunization programs, as well as to the $14 million reduction from the President's requested level for FY 1996. States have documented their need for these funds to purchase vaccines. Providing less than the level appropriated in FY 1995 or the amount requested in FY 1996 could impede accomplishment of our shared goal of immunizing a greater percentage of America's children.

The Administration is very concerned about the Committee's $374 million (17-percent) reduction to the President's request for funding of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Although the Committee has increased funding for mental health and substance abuse demonstration programs by $212 million above the House level, the money for that restoration has come out of the substance abuse and mental health block grants, as well as from a transfer of $200 million from the Department of Education's Safe and Drug Free Schools program. The Administration is pleased that the committee mark restores funding for much of the drug treatment and mental health services program for the homeless. However, the overall 17- percent reduction in SAMHSA funding would seriously undermine substance abuse and mental health services and the National Drug Control Strategy.



The Administration supports the Committee's action that would restore funds available for research, demonstration, training, and technical assistance programs focusing on individuals with disabilities. These programs provide essential support for the State direct service programs and help the Administration and the Congress understand and respond to disability issues.



The Administration is pleased that the Committee has deleted objectionable language of the House bill that would change existing law by allowing states to deny Medicaid funding for abortions for victims of rape and incest. The Administration strongly opposes any effort to curtail the ability of poor women to choose abortion in cases of rape or incest. Likewise, the Administration is pleased that the Committee has deleted objectionable House language concerning private accreditation standards for medical residency programs.



The Administration strongly opposes a provision of the Committee bill that would prohibit the Executive Branch from using FY 1996 funds to implement, administer, or enforce any Executive Order or other rule or order that prohibits Federal contracts with companies that hire permanent replacements for striking employees. This provision would impinge upon the Executive Branch's ability to ensure a stable supply of quality goods and services for the government's programs.



The Administration supports the Committee's decision to delete many of the objectionable language provisions included in the House bill, including the political advocacy provision. Many of these riders would seriously impinge upon the Executive Branch's flexibility to manage programs and should not be included in an appropriations bill.

The Administration is pleased that the Committee has removed a provision contained in the House bill that would prohibit funding of the Surgeon General position. The Administration supports the Committee in its recognition of the value of the leadership on personal and societal health issues that the Surgeon General provides our Nation.

Additional Administration concerns are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment (Senate Floor)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to address the following concerns.










