

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.

The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. In FY 1996 alone, the President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending by cutting $5 billion in outlays from the FY 1995 level. However, the Administration does not share the priorities reflected in the Committee's mark or support the level of funding adopted in the Committee's 602(b) allocations. The Administration must evaluate each bill both in terms of funding levels provided and the share of total resources available for remaining priorities. The Committee bill is over $12 billion below the President's request.

The President strongly believes that we must invest in our country's future by supporting education and training. Investments in these areas will promote long-term economic growth and higher living standards. The Committee bill would imprudently cut valuable, proven programs that educate our Nation's children, aid the disadvantaged, invest in working people, and protect our Nation's health and safety. Many of the programs funded in this bill are aimed at protecting and aiding the most vulnerable in our society. Reductions proposed by the Committee would have a particularly harmful effect on our Nation's children, our youth, and the disadvantaged by cutting funding for numerous education programs, training programs, the Corporation for National and Community Service, and mental health and substance abuse prevention and treatment demonstration grants.

For these reasons, discussed more fully below, the President would veto the bill if it were presented to him in its current form.



The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's reduction in the Head Start program. This program plays a vital role in preparing disadvantaged young children for school; its expansion should be continued, not reversed. The President would add $400 million and 32,000 new slots to the Head Start program in FY 1996. The Committee, in contrast, would reduce funding by $137 million below the FY 1995 level ($537 million below the President's request). If program quality were to be maintained at such a reduced level, the Committee action would cut between 45,000 and 50,000 children from the program. The Administration strongly urges the House to provide FY 1996 funding at the level requested by the President.



The Administration is committed to ensuring adequate funding for key education programs that help average Americans build a better future for themselves and their families. More than ever before in our Nation's history, what you earn depends on What you learn. Yet, the Committee would reduce the President's request for education programs by $5 billion. The Committee's recommended overall funding level is $4 billion, or 16 percent, below the FY 1995 enacted level. The President is committed to investing in our children's education. The Committee has systematically targeted those key programs designed to serve our Nation's youth for the most debilitating cuts. The Committee would reduce — by 30 percent below the President's request — the Administration's highest priority programs, programs that focus on improving student achievement in our Nation's elementary and secondary schools.

These draconian reductions would be achieved through the termination of critical education programs. The Committee's ill- advised decision to terminate funding for Goals 2000 would set back State-based efforts to improve learning for all students and to build a more competitive workforce. Drastic reductions in other programs, including Education for the Disadvantaged and Safe and Drug Free Schools, are unacceptable. These reductions are short-sighted and would have a devastating effect on our Nation's future.

The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's elimination of the Summer Youth Employment and Training Program. The Committee's action would eliminate the opportunity for 615,000 disadvantaged youth per year to acquire valuable job experience and learn essential job skills. As the President noted when he signed H.R. 1944, the Administration continues to support the program and will work with Congress in the FY 1996 appropriations process to ensure that the program for the summer of 1996 is funded.

The Committee bill would drastically reduce the President's request for the Department of Labor's youth job training programs and the bipartisan school-to-work initiative — by 46 percent, or $1.3 billion. At a time when it is more evident than ever that America's youth are not receiving enough opportunities to acquire the job skills necessary to succeed in today's economy, these reductions are unacceptable.

At a time of increased workforce anxiety and major labor market dislocations, the Committee bill would impose unacceptably large reductions in resources to retrain dislocated workers and low-income adults and help them find jobs through One-Stop Career Centers. The bill would reduce funding for dislocated workers and disadvantaged adults by $545 million, or 25 percent, below the FY 1995 comparable level. The bill would cut $1.4 billion, or 46 percent, from the President's request and would deny training and reemployment services to about 506,100 dislocated workers and 84,000 low-income adults. While corporate and military downsizing continues to displace hard-working Americans, shrinking these critical services is unconscionable.

The Administration strongly opposes the House Committee's reduction of $94 million for the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) programs funded in this appropriations bill. The Committee would cut the Volunteers in Service to America program (VISTA) by 57 percent, reducing the number of VISTA volunteers working to alleviate poverty in low-income communities nationwide to 2,000 volunteers, less than half the requested level. The Committee level also would deny nearly 170,000 older Americans the opportunity to help the homebound elderly, disabled children, and others in their communities. The Administration urges the House to provide the funding level requested in the President's budget.



The Administration opposes the provision in the Committee bill that would prohibit funding of the Surgeon General position. This micromanagement of the Executive Branch would severely curtail the leadership that the public has traditionally looked to for guidance on personal and societal health issues. The Administration urges the House to remove this provision.

The Administration is concerned that the Committee mark for programs funded under the Ryan White CARE Act is $67 million less than the $723 million request. The funding level proposed by the President represents the minimum amount necessary to maintain funding for the 42 cities already receiving Ryan White assistance; to fund the seven to ten new cities expected to qualify for Ryan White assistance in FY 1996; and to provide sufficient funding to keep up with increasing AIDS caseloads in States, cities, and local clinics currently receiving Ryan White grants.

The Committee bill does not appropriate a specific amount for AIDS research through a single appropriation for the National Institutes of Health's (NIH's) Office of AIDS Research as requested by the Director of NIH in the President's budget. Unlike research on other diseases, HIV research is spread among all of the institutes and centers of NIH, rather than being focused essentially in one institute. By failing to provide a single appropriation, the Congress makes less explicit its intentions regarding funding to fight the disease that is now the leading cause of death for people aged 25 to 44. The current single appropriation helps target NIH research dollars effectively, minimizing duplication and inefficiencies across the 21 institutes and centers that carry out HIV/AIDS research.



The Administration is very concerned about the significant reductions made by the Committee in programs for individuals with disabilities. While allowing funding for direct services to remain essentially intact, the Committee bill would systematically reduce or eliminate funds available for research, demonstration, training, and technical assistance programs focusing on individuals with disabilities and would phase out the Federal appropriation for the National Council on Disability. These programs provide essential support for the State direct service programs and help the Administration and the Congress understand and respond to disability issues.



The President believes that abortion should be safe, legal, and rare. The Committee bill effectively ends the Family Planning Program that Republicans and Democrats have long agreed is needed to help prevent the need for abortion. The Administration opposes this action.

The Administration strongly opposes the provision of the Committee bill that would change existing law by allowing States to deny Medicaid funding for abortions for victims of rape and incest. The provision that the Committee has approved would prevent poor women from having access to abortion services even in situations where they are victims of rape or incest. This change in the law would unfairly target the most vulnerable poor women and their families. The Administration strongly opposes any effort to curtail the ability of poor women to choose abortion in cases of rape or incest and urges the House to delete this provision.



The Administration strongly opposes a provision of the Committee bill that would prohibit the Executive Branch from using FY 1996 funds to implement, administer, or enforce any Executive Order or other rule or order that prohibits Federal contracts with companies that hire permanent replacements for striking employees. This provision would impinge upon the Executive Branch's ability to ensure a stable supply of quality goods and services for the government's programs.



The Committee has included a provision, "Prohibition on the Use of Federal Funds for Political Advocacy," that presents a broad attack upon the exercise of fundamental rights protected by the First Amendment. Congress may, under some circumstances, restrict the uses to which Federal monies are put; however, insofar as this provision forecloses the exercise of protected rights with other than Federal funds, it would be deemed a penalty for that exercise and thus would be unconstitutional. It would limit the ability of organizations to participate in administrative or judicial proceedings and appearances before State and local entities. In addition, it is now widely agreed that much is to be gained when private organizations and charities work in partnership with the government to implement social policies. The House is urged to delete this provision.

Additional Administration concerns with the bill as reported by the Committee are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment (House Rules)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to address the following concerns.










