

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 1976, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee.

The Administration is committed to balancing the Federal budget by FY 2005. The President's budget proposes to reduce discretionary spending for FY 1996 by $5 billion in outlays below the FY 1995 enacted level. The Administration supports reducing spending but does not share the priorities reflected in the Committee's mark or support the level of funding assumed by the committee's 602(b) allocations.

For the reasons discussed below, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget would recommend that the President veto H.R. 1976 if it were presented to him in its current form.



The Administration understands that an en bloc amendment may be offered to remove certain provisions in the Committee bill that would reduce mandatory spending. The Administration supports the deletion of these items. The amendment would permit spending for the Export Enhancement Program to be funded at the level agreed to in the GATT implementing legislation, which was part of the Administration's commitment made during negotiations on that legislation. Another of those commitments, continued sign-ups for the Conservation Reserve Program would also be permitted under the en bloc amendment, as would the Administration's request for the Wetlands Reserve Program. The Administration strongly supports these vital programs that provide both environmental and farm income benefits.

However, the amendment would make deeper, unacceptable reductions in rural development programs. These high-priority programs are part of the Administration's Rural Development Initiative, and they form an integral part of the proposed Rural Development Performance Partnership program. The amendment would reduce rural water and wastewater loans and grants to $435 million. This would represent a 45-percent reduction from the request level and a 35-percent reduction from FY 1993 levels.

The amendment would also terminate the Intermediary Relending Program, which provides State-sponsored rural development intermediaries with program funds that can be tailored to individual community and regional needs. In addition, single-family housing direct loans would be reduced to $500 million under the amendment, a 50-percent reduction to the request. This would represent the lowest level for these housing loans in 30 years, and would deny thousands of rural low-income families the opportunity to become homeowners.



The Committee bill would undermine the essential nature of the Food Stamp Program — its ability to respond to increased need during times of economic downturn. For the last five years, the Committee has provided a benefit reserve or "cushion" to guard against an unexpected economic downturn or estimating errors. The bill would remove this cushion, placing all food stamp recipients in jeopardy of reduced benefits due to a regional recession. The Administration urges the House to maintain the food stamp benefit reserve, which is essential to this national nutrition safety net-

The Administration urges the deletion of language in the committee bill that would freeze the food stamp standard deduction at the FY 1995 level. The Administration understands that the Committee anticipates savings of $190 million in FY 1996 due to this action. This proposal is similar to one included in the House-passed welfare reform bill (H.R. 4), and that bill already has claimed similar savings. Shifting these savings to the discretionary side of the budget would put pressure on the authorizing committees to replace these lost savings by making further cuts in assistance to needy individuals.



Under the Committee's proposals, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) would be funded at $260 million above the FY 1995 appropriation but $90 million below the request. The Administration appreciates the Committee's support for this important program but recommends that the House provide the full amount of the request. In addition, the Administration strongly opposes the Committee's proposal to cap WIC participation. The Administration's goal is to serve 7.5 million persons by the end of FY 1996 while the Committee would cap participation at 7.3 million, currently, funding — rather than participation — is capped. This encourages States to reduce costs in order to serve more participants within available funding- Instituting a participation cap would remove a State's incentive to control costs once the State had reached its participation limit. The Administration would strongly support a Floor amendment that would remove the WIC participation cap.

In addition, the Committee bill would require that $20 million of FY 1996 administrative funds be made available for food benefits. While the Administration believes that this is preferable to the Subcommittee proposal to cap administrative funding, the Administration is concerned that this would set a precedent for reducing administrative funding within WIC. Continued reductions could diminish program management and erode the positive impacts of WIC for low-income women, infants, and children.



The Administration opposes bill language that would mandate negotiated rulemaking for the Department's proposed Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) program. Although the Administration supports the use of negotiated rulemaking to ensure effective regulation, the choice of when negotiated rulemaking would be a more effective process should be determined by the agency officials involved in the specific rulemaking process. The proposed HACCP and Pathogen Reduction rule that the Administration published in February 1995 is an important step toward guaranteeing the safety of meat and poultry products. Requiring that the agency undertake a negotiated rulemaking at this time could significantly delay the modernization of the Nation's meat and poultry inspection system.



The President's budget proposes language to permit the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to collect new user fees for medical device review and import inspection. The language references the government's general user fee authority, 31 U-S.C. 9701, as one potential authority for these collections. The Committee bill would limit the ability of the FDA to ensure the proper and most efficient uses of its resources through the recovery of full value for its services to industry. The Administration urges the House to permit the FDA to collect and use these user fees.



The Administration has proposed closing 12 Federal agricultural research facilities and re-targeting the funding to current, higher-priority research projects. The Committee report states that only five facilities should be closed, three facilities should be relegated to alternate work sites, and the four remaining facilities should be kept open. Committee decisions such as these make it difficult for the Department to manage its research programs to meet the highest priority food, agricultural, and environmental needs. The Administration urges the House to reverse the Committee action.

Additional Administration concerns with the bill as reported by the Committee are contained in the attachment.

Attachment


Attachment (House Floor)








The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress later in the process in an effort to address the following concerns:


