 Good morning, everybody.
 Was it a fair fight?
 Two for two. We only saw two.
 You've got two there?
 Yep.
 Is that the limit?
 No, but it was our limit today because it's all we saw.
 And are you responsible for their demise, sir?
 Yes, I shot them both. They let me shoot them, so I shot them.
 It's cold and it's wet out there. Where's the fun part?
 Well, the most fun part is just being out there when the light comes up and seeing the ducks come across. We had a lot of geese, too. You know, the geese fly in these huge V formations; they're really beautiful.
And we all shot them with weapons, I might add, that were not affected by the crime bill, except they were protected.
 What kind of weapons?
 We all had our different shotguns. But I just want to make that point to all the sports men and women who are watching this. Contrary to what some of them were told in the last election, we're all still hunting and nobody has lost their gun. And we did the right thing to ban the assault weapons.
But I had a great time out there today. The best thing, like I said, about it today was just watching—on a cloudy day like this the ducks can see the hunters, so they're less likely to come down in large numbers, but we saw a huge number of them flying around. It was quite beautiful.
 Are they fooled by the duck calls?
 On a clear day, the duck calls help.
 Can we hear your technique?
 The duck call? No. I got this— this duck call is made in Stuttgart, Arkansas, which is close to here, where they have the international duck calling championship every year. And the man that made this call is now the mayor of the city.
 Does it work?
 It works fine.
 Six dollars at the Wal-Mart.
[
]
 Do it! Do it! [
]
 What do you think?
 A little more down here. [
]
 I'm from Brooklyn.
 For Brooklyn, it's good. [
]
 Do you feel like you're really on vacation now, sir?
 Yes—well, I wish I had a little more time to spend. But it was wonderful. We had a great time out there, and I'm here with some old friends.
 The male bonding kind of thing?
 Well, the guys I was here with, the ones I was here with today, we bonded a long time ago. They may be interested in unbonding. [
]
 Do you eat the ducks?
 Oh, yes. Yes, we're just trying to figure—I'm sitting here trying to figure out how I can get them back to the White House.
 Do you clean them?
 No, not lately I haven't. When I was younger I did that. I probably—maybe I'll do it again.
 How far off are they when you shoot them?
 How far were these away?
 The white one was a long way.
 One of them was—how far were they, Bob?
 Oh, anywhere from 70 to 80 yards. The President made two great shots.
 I got lucky today.
 And who retrieves them?
 Actually, Bob went out and— no, you didn't go. They went out—we had a boat and got them today. Sometimes you have dogs get them but today we—people retrieved them in a flat-bottom boat. But it was a wonderful morning.
[
]
 We didn't see many today, but we got two shots. There were a couple more that came in close, but they came in so fast that we weren't ready. But these were really the only two we could shoot at. And I had the charity—this crew over there, they all sat there and let me shoot at it. [
]
 Are you glad to be home?
 Yes. I really started feeling like a person when I was about 5 minutes out on the water today.