

The Administration has serious concerns with H.R. 2202 as reported by the Judiciary Committee. These concerns are described below and in the 
, The Administration will work with the Congress to seek adoption of amendments that satisfactorily address these concerns.

If H.R. 2202 were presented to the President with the Agriculture Committee's amendment creating a new agricultural guestworker program, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Labor would recommend that the bill be vetoed. The Administration strongly opposes a new agricultural guestworker program because it would: (1) reduce work opportunities for U.S. citizens and other legal residents; (2) depress wages and work standards for U.S. farmworkers; (3) not be a sustainable solution to any labor shortage that might develop; and (4) increase illegal immigration. However, the Administration is prepared to work with all interested parties, including the Congress, as appropriate, to address ways to improve the existing H-2A program in a way that will not jeopardize worker protections.



Many provisions of HJL 2202 are similar or identical to the President's 1995 legislative proposal, comprehensive enforcement initiatives, and overall strategy to deter illegal immigration. To reverse decades of neglect, the Administration's strategy calls for regaining control of the Nation's borders; protecting legally employed workers by improving worksite enforcement; aggressively pursuing the removal of criminal aliens and other illegal aliens; and securing from Congress the resources to assist States with the costs of illegal immigration. The President's strategy is already being implemented and making sure and steady progress toward achievement of its goals.



The Administration supports die bill's objective of a moderate reduction in the overall level of legal immigration. However, the Administration endorses a framework of legal immigration that respects our immigration traditions. The Administration has significant objections, as described in the 
 to the manner in which H.R. 2202 would achieve fin overall reduction. The Administration series legal immigration reform that; (1) promotes the strength of families and their values through family reunification; (2) protects U.S. workers from unfair competition while providing employers with appropriate access to international labor markets to promote U.S. global competitiveness; and (3) promotes naturalization to encourage full participation in the national community.

H.R. 2202 fails in several respects to satisfy these principles:



Protecting individuals with a genuine fear of persecution is a basic tract of our Nation's heritage and the Administration's policy. The Administration strongly opposes any provision that would invalidate a claim for asylum, regardless of the merits of the claim, if it is filed after a deadline. The Administration's asylum reforms already are addressing misuse of the system and applications declined by 57 percent in 1995. Any asylum application deadline is contrary to our country's humanitarian principles and would divert resources from addressing real abuse to needless disputes over the date the applicant entered the United States.



The Administration has a number of concerns about the provisions of H.R. 2202 relating to immigrants eligibility for government benefits. While the Administration appreciates and supports that H.R. 2202 does not impose an outright ban on benefits, as proposed under other legislation, the Administration continues to have concerns with these provisions. The Administration is committed to strengthening die "deeming" requirements, under which an immigrant's income is deemed to include the income of the sponsor.

Concerns remain, however, that the bill as currently drafted may jeopardize immigrants' health and safety and create a significant administrative burden on social service providers. For these reasons, the Administration strongly opposes applying new deeming rules to the Medicaid program and other non-cash assistance programs, including public health and inland social services programs. It is simply unworkable. In addition, the Administration also opposes applying new deeming rules to current recipients; the disabled (who are exempt under current law); and legal immigrants seeking to participate in student financial aid programs.



H.R. 2202 would affect direct spending and receipts; therefore, it is subject to the "pay-as-you-go" requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. OMB's scoring of this legislation is under development











