

This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 1977, the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1996, as approved in conference on October 31, 1995. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.

In an October 19, 1995, letter to the conferees, the Administration identified the most troublesome provisions in the original conference report with the goal of arriving at a bill that serves specific, vital interests and that could be signed by the President.

Regrettably, the second conference report did not address the significant funding shortfalls and objectionable legislative riders. If the bill, as approved by the second conference, were presented to the President, he would veto it. The issues that were identified in the October 19th letter arm still serious problems and arm described below.



The second conference did nothing to restore funds in the areas that the Administration identified am significantly underfunded. These are the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Department of Energy's (DOE'S) energy conservation programs.

The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) budget was increased in the first conference $86 million above the Senate level. However, there was no additional increase provided in the second conference. That would still leave the program $136 million short of the House mark and $184 million below the FY 1995 enacted level. The most significant effect of this action remains the crippling reductions targeted at tribal priority allocation programs, which support essential tribal government, law enforcement, housing improvement, general assistance, Indian child welfare, adult vocational training, road maintenance, and other reservation programs. The Administration's view is that funding must be substantially restored for these programs.

DOE's energy conservation programs are still funded at a net level of $536 million. There has been no increase from the first conference level. This is $187 million, or 26 percent, below the net FY 1995 enacted level of $723 million, and 38 percent below the President's request. Funding for these programs must be restored significantly in order to reach acceptable levels.

In addition to the language issues addressed below, the President will not sign an Interior appropriations bill unless funding for these programs is significantly restored without harming other high-priority programs or unless there is an overall agreement between the Congress and the Administration on budget priorities that addresses the Administration's fundamental concerns about spending priorities both in this bill and elsewhere.



The conference committee has again chosen to continue to include numerous legislative riders in the bill that the Administration finds seriously objectionable. The riders that were cited in the October 19th letter have not been significantly improved in the second conference. These provisions are so seriously flawed that the Administration sees no way to remedy them, short of removing them altogether. The most serious problems are:

In addition, the Administration has previously expressed concern about other legislative riders, including the moratorium on future listings under the Endangered Species Act, the Department of Energy efficiency standards one-year moratorium, the 90-day moratorium on grazing regulation implementation, and the provision affecting the Lummi Tribe and seven other self- governance tribes in Washington State. An additional funding issue concerns the severe cuts (nearly 40 percent) to the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). These significantly reduced funding levels would jeopardize NEA's and REE's ability to continue to provide important cultural, educational, and artistic programs for communities across America.