The Administration supports many of the objectives of H.R. 2, and appreciates the passage of several amendments that improve the bill as well as the determination to enact long overdue program reforms. However, the Administration remains 
 unless it is amended to address the concerns summarized below (and explained in more detail in the attachment).
H.R. 2 would codify much of the Administration's agenda for transforming the Nation's public housing system by: (1) facilitating the demolition and replacement of severely distressed housing developments, including replacement with mixed-income housing through partnerships with the private sector; (2) demanding prompt improvement of troubled public housing agencies (PHAs) or replacing their management; (3) promoting rent policies and coordination with supportive service efforts that encourage work; and (4) getting tougher on crime.
. Although the Administration appreciates the purposes of H.R. 2 and the improvements in the bill, the Administration remains opposed to H.R. 2 unless it is amended to:
. H.R. 2 would affect direct spending; therefore, it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. OMB's preliminary scoring estimate of this bill is under development.
. The Administration supports many of the objectives of H.R. 2: to promote safe, decent, and affordable housing, to streamline and strengthen the publichousing and tenant-based assistance programs, and to give well-run public housing agencies ("PHAs") more flexibility to administer housing assistance in accordance with local needs and conditions.
. The Administration appreciates the passage of several amendments that improve H.R. 2, including a bipartisan amendment ensuring that excess Section 8 reserves are available to renew Section 8 contracts and adding physical conditions as an indicator of PHA performance. The Administration looks forward to working with Congress to further streamline the program in a responsible manner, such as by reducing the reporting and review requirements in the PHA plan along the lines of the proposal contained in the Administration's bill.
. Although the Administration appreciates the purposes of H.R. 2 and the improvements recently made to the bill, as well as the determination to enact program reforms that are long overdue, 
 unless it is amended to: