[
]
 ——basically my philosophy about where I think America is and where I think we ought to go.
 Would you describe it as a manifesto for the next administration if you get reelected?
 Well, it's not an exclusive list of all the things I intend to do, but it makes the argument about why I think the direction we're going is right, why we're better off than we were, and what I hope we'll do. And it's just something I've been wanting to say. I finished it the first 2 days we got here, and I hope the people who read it will find it helpful. I was glad to do it.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
 Have you been getting enough relaxation? Are you feeling rested, sir?
 More rested now. The first 2 days I worked real hard trying to finish the book, and, you know, a lot of things happened the last 2 months which kind of got me behind deadlines. So I worked pretty hard on that. But yesterday I got to play a little golf, and of course, we had that wonderful hike the day before.
 When did you decide to write the book, sir?
 About a year ago.
 Guys, move to the right, move a step to the right.
 Yes, I don't want anybody to get hurt here.
 Is Senator Dole in the book, sir?
 It's basically a book about the country.
 Do you care to comment at all about the choice of Jack Kemp for the Republican Vice Presidential nomination?
 No, I'm going to leave them alone, let them have their convention. I like Al Gore; that's my comment. [
] The best Vice President in history.
 What can you say about the train ride you're going to take to the convention, sir?
 I'm excited about it. We're trying to—I think they probably finalized all the routes now, and I love trains, so I'm excited about it. I didn't know—the main thing I was concerned about is if we did it I just didn't want to inconvenience people because of the security and everything. And I think we've got it—I've got a route now where, apparently, there will be a minimum of dislocation.
 You love trains, but do you love horses?
 I love horses.
 What's the horse's name?
 Wink. This is Wink, and that's Patches.
 You look like you've lost some weight. Have you dropped a few pounds?
 A little bit, I think. I'm almost—I dropped 15 or 20 pounds, I guess, since—in the last year or so. Got to be in shape, you know. This is a rigorous endeavor.
 I found that out the other day. [
]
 Well, that was tough. I was very sore yesterday. I don't know if you were, but I was pretty sore.
 I still am, sir.
 I found out when I was on that golf course that my rhythm wasn't quite there anymore. [
] Whew, it was bad after a while. [
]
 Have fun.
 Thank you. I'm glad to see— how are you feeling?
 I'm good, Mr. President. Little sore. Hope you're having a good time.
 Well, I really didn't—when I took you all off on that wild goose chase I didn't know it was going to be quite as demanding as it was. But I'm glad we did it.
 Well, I'm just not in shape. It's my fault.
 Well, now, it takes a few days to get adjusted to the atmosphere, you know, once you're—the higher altitude.
 Well, we carry a little bit of stuff.
 Yes, and I see—we weren't carrying all that. I don't know how you all did that. Somebody made it all through with a huge camera.
 Hank Brown, ABC.
 We ought to give him some kind of medal. He's in great shape. [
]
Marlene, how are you doing?
 I'm good. How are you? You look great.
 I'm doing great.
 That's a great hat.
 Yes, I've had this old hat a long time. And my old boots.
 Is it a Stetson?
 I got these boots about, oh, 8 years ago—7, 8 years ago, in Salem, Arkansas, Fulton County. I went out to help them—it was a little town of 1,000 people, and they got one of our economic development airport grants. And they gave me these boots.
 What are they made of, sir?
 Snakeskin.
 Are you relaxed?
 Yes, I love it here. I love it here. I love it. I'm glad we got out for a ride.
 I'm glad we got a picture. [
]
 Well, yes. I was sort of derelict today. I decided I'd sleep in and kind of laze around. So we've just been fooling around at home.
Good to see you.