 So what's his name?
 Isn't he pretty?
 But what's his name?
 Press conference, press conference.
 His name is "Press Conference"?
 That's a good idea. That's probably what I should have called him. Do you want to go see them?
 Mr. President, where does he sleep? Where does your puppy sleep?
 Upstairs.
 Upstairs. And does he have his own little doggy bed?
 He has a little house in the kitchen. He's sleeping in the kitchen right now.
 He sleeps in a little doghouse?
 Yes, he sleeps in a little doghouse.
 Is he really trained?
 You may get a chance to see here in a minute. [
] Yes, he is. He's done quite well so far.
 And what can he do?
 Sit. That's good.
 And what's he eating, Mr. President?
 Just a little dog biscuit. Now, he's pretty well-trained. And I get up in the morning and take him for a walk early, at 7 a.m., and then I give him breakfast. Then we go for another walk. [
] And then he has lunch and goes for another walk.
 Who takes him at lunchtime?
 Well, so far, I have.
 He likes the press, Mr. President.
 Yes, he does. So do I.
 He doesn't bother your allergies?
 No, I've never been allergic to dogs. And I have a minor allergy to cats. That's why most of the time when I play with Socks, I've tried to play with him outside.
 Has he met Socks?
 Yes, twice—three times. I'm trying to work this out.
 What happened?
 It's going to take awhile. It's kind of like peace in Ireland or the Middle East. [
]
 What happened when they met?
 Socks was a little scared of him, I think. Yesterday—you could have had a great picture yesterday. She jumped—he jumped way up on my shoulders. Socks climbed right up and got up on my shoulders so that they would have an appropriate distance. But we're giving them items that the two of them have, to try to get used to the scent. And I'll get it worked out.
 Where will he hang out most of the day?
 What's his name?
 He can hang out nearly anywhere. We've got a little flexible cage back in the Dining Room now in the White House. He comes over to the Oval Office with me in the morning, and he does fine.
 Without telling us the name, can you tell us if it came from a citizen?
 No, in the end it didn't—[
]—reviewing them. And then we went— don't eat that; you just had lunch—and we got down to about seven or eight, and then we got down to three and finally made a decision.
Come on, kiddo, come on. Let's go.