Nearly two years ago, the President announced he would establish a non-partisan Quality Commission to make recommendations on how best to assure patient protections and quality health care. When he appointed this Commission, he directed that it develop a patients' bill of rights as its first order of business. Since last November, the President has been calling on the Congress to pass a strong, enforceable patients' bill of rights. It was not until last week that the Republican Leadership finally introduced long-overdue legislation on this issue.
The Administration believes that the Republican Leadership's introduction of H.R. 4250 clearly demonstrates that there is broad-based consensus on the need for Federal legislation to ensure that Americans have patient protections. The President is committed to working with the Congress to pass an enforceable patients' bill of rights this year.
Unfortunately, H.R. 4250 is seriously flawed legislation. It covers too few people, it provides too few patient protections, and it contains unnecessary and irrelevant provisions that undermine the chances for a bipartisan agreement on a patients' bill of rights. As such, the Administration strongly opposes H.R. 4250, as currently drafted, and the President's senior advisors would recommend that he veto this bill if it were presented to him by the Congress.
First, H.R. 4250 does not apply to the individual insurance market and therefore millions of Americans would not be assured these patient protections. The President has repeatedly stated that every health plan should have to provide its enrollees with a patients' bill of rights.
Second, this legislation does not provide many critical provisions that are necessary to assure high quality care. The following protections are either absent from this legislation or are insufficient:
Third, H.R. 4250 contains provisions that have nothing to do with patients' rights and only serve to reduce the likelihood that an acceptable agreement can be reached on this important issue. Recognizing our concerns with these provisions, the Congress agreed as recently as last year to keep them off bipartisan legislation -- specifically, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. These provisions include:
For these reasons, the President agrees with provider organizations, such as the American Medical Association and the American Nurses Association, and virtually every major consumer organization that H.R. 4250 is insufficient and does not provide patients with the protections they need and deserve. While we have serious concerns with H.R. 4250, the President remains committed to passing a strong, enforceable and bipartisan patients' bill of rights this year. The bipartisan substitute legislation offered by Mr. Dingell and Dr. Ganske covers all health plans, contains strong enforceable patient protections, and has no "poison pill" provisions that have nothing to do with these patient protections. As such, the President would sign H.R. 3605 into law. It is the President's hope that Republicans and Democrats can work across party lines to put progress ahead of partisanship and pass legislation that provides Americans with the patients' protections they need and deserve.
H.R. 4250 would affect both direct spending and receipts; therefore, it is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. OMB's preliminary scoring estimate of the bill is under development.