This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 4274, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1999, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.
Due to the very serious funding and language issues present in the Committee bill, discussed below, the President would veto the bill in its current form.
The only way to achieve the appropriate investment level for programs funded by this bill is to offset discretionary spending by using savings in other areas. The President's FY 1999 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending for FY 1999 that conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings through user fees and certain mandatory programs to help finance this spending. In the Transportation Equity Act, Congress -- on a broad, bipartisan basis -- took similar action in approving funding for surface transportation programs paid for with mandatory offsets. We want to work with the Congress on mutually-agreeable mandatory and other offsets that could be used to increase funding for high-priority discretionary programs, including those funded by this bill. In addition, we hope that the House will reduce funding for lower priority discretionary programs and redirect funding to programs of higher priority.
The Committee bill cuts $2 billion from the President's overall request for education program funding. As a result, the bill does not adequately support the Nation's efforts to raise student achievement, make schools safe, and improve the capabilities of teachers. High priority programs inadequately funded include (listed in bill order):
In addition to inadequate funding for priority education programs, the Administration is concerned with several language provisions of the Committee bill that would severely restrict the Administration's ability to continue the development of programs designed to raise academic standards.
The Administration has strong concerns with the inadequate funding levels provided for the following Labor programs (listed in bill order):
The Committee bill contains several objectionable language riders addressing regulatory issues in the Department of Labor. These include language imposing new, unnecessary, and burdensome review procedures before the Department can issue Black Lung regulations, a new requirement for OSHA to conduct duplicative peer review panels for its new regulations, and a continuation of the rider that prohibits MSHA from enforcing training requirements at certain mines, which have a growing numbers of deaths. These riders would make it more difficult for the Department of Labor to carry out its programs and should be dropped.
The Administration objects to the continuation of last year's rider that prohibits the use of funds for supervising the Teamster's election, despite a court order requiring the Federal Government to pay for a supervised election.
The Administration appreciates the Committee's efforts to provide much needed funding for important programs crucial to the healthy lives of all Americans. Unfortunately, the Committee has not provided adequate funding for several important programs of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The Administration has strong concerns with the inadequate funding levels provided for the following HHS programs (listed in bill order):
In addition, the Committee bill contains several language provisions that are troubling to the Administration.
The Committee bill does not provide $19 million for administrative expenses, contingent on the authorization of a user fee for services provided by the Social Security Administration to attorneys who represent claimants for benefits. These services include withholding money from certain past due benefits and issuing payments to certain claimant representatives. The Administration continues to support enactment of this user fee and appropriation of the anticipated collections for administrative expenses.
In addition, the Committee bill does not provide $50 million for administrative expenses for the conduct of additional non-disability Supplemental Security Income (SSI) redeterminations of eligibility. These resources and the resulting redeterminations are essential to ensuring the integrity of the SSI program and reducing unnecessary benefit payments. Failure to provide this funding would result in serious staffing shortfalls.