This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on S. 1650, the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2000, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.
As the President indicated in his statement yesterday, while the funding levels in the Senate Committee bill are better than those in the House bill, he would veto the bill in its current form for the reasons discussed below.
The President's FY 2000 Budget provides levels of discretionary spending for FY 2000 that conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings through user fees and certain mandatory programs to help finance this spending. The Administration wants to work with the Congress on mutually-agreeable mandatory and other offsets that could be used to increase funding for high-priority discretionary programs, including those funded by this bill.
The Administration strongly opposes the Senate Committee bill's undermining of our national commitment to improve our schools by not guaranteeing funds specifically for Class Size Reduction. The President's Budget includes the second installment of his goal to hire 100,000 new teachers in order to reduce class size in the early years. Unfortunately, the Senate bill reneges on the bipartisan commitment last year to reduce class sizes to an average of 18 in the primary grades by providing no funds specifically for Class Size Reduction. As a result, it does not guarantee funding for the 29,000 teachers hired last year or the additional 8,000 teachers that would be hired under the President's proposal. This program has been extremely popular -- every State applied for and received funding in FY 1999, and preliminary State reports show that 1.7 million children will benefit from last year's funds alone. We would support efforts to restore funding to this critical initiative as the bill moves through the legislative process.
The Senate Committee-reported bill also provides unacceptably low funding for the following education priorities:
In addition to the funding issues identified above, the Administration strongly urges the Senate to include a key language provision that would support stronger accountability under the Title I program by requiring States to reserve 2.5 percent of their LEA Grant allocations to help turn around the lowest-performing schools.
Furthermore, the Administration objects to the language limitation that would bring a halt to the President's efforts to help States and parents raise academic standards through a voluntary national test. The Committee bill's language would prohibit the pilot testing, field testing, implementation, administration, and distribution of the tests unless explicitly authorized. The language prohibition should be deleted. Congress should be promoting high standards for all students, not undermining them.
The Senate Committee bill underfunds public health priorities, including preventive health, mental health services, and health care access for the poor. The Administration is very concerned about the following cuts to key health and social service programs:
The Administration appreciates the Senate Committee's mark for the Department of Labor's employment and training programs and programs protecting working Americans at their jobs. This supports our initiatives to help dislocated workers, youth, and others in need of skills or skill upgrading to prepare for, find, and retain jobs in today's workplace. In addition, the Committee's mark will help ensure that worker safety and health and other rights are protected on the job at home as well as help developing economies establish core labor standards. However, the Administration urges the Senate to provide the full request for the Department to work with other agencies to address youth violence among out-of-school youth and the request for the Bureau of Labor Statistics to ensure that our statistical programs are maintained and improved.
The Administration appreciates the Senate Committee's full funding of the request for the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Among other things, this will enable the NLRB to work down its case backlog and improve its information technology so it can better serve labor and employers in resolving the charges brought before it for resolution.