This Statement of Administration policy provides the Administration's views on the Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2000, as approved by the House Committee. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.
The Administration appreciates the Committee's efforts to accommodate some of the Administration's priorities within its 302(b) allocation. However, the inadequacy of the 302(b) allocation has forced the Committee to make choices that are simply unacceptable.
The President's FY 2000 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending that meet important national needs while conforming to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings proposals in mandatory and other programs available to help finance vital spending needs. Congress has approved and the President has signed into law nearly $29 billion of such offsets in appropriations legislation since 1995. The Administration urges the Congress to consider more of such proposals as the FY 2000 appropriations process moves forward.
In total, the Committee bill does not include the resources necessary to support high priority programs at an acceptable level. The bill would jeopardize critical activities and initiatives in a number of areas, including:
In addition, the Committee bill includes a number of objectionable language provisions. We urge the House to strike these provisions.
If the bill were presented to the President in its current form, the President's senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.
Detailed comments on the Committee bill are provided in the attachment. We look forward to working with the House to address our mutual concerns.
Attachment

(House)
It is crucial that the Endangered Species Act program be funded at the requested level to support implementation and foster Federal partnership efforts with the States. The Administration also urges that funding be restored for the Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment program and for NOAA's effort to build capacity at, and promote relationships with, Historically Black Colleges and Universities. In addition, the Administration strongly urges the House to restore funding for the President's Information Technology Initiatives and climate and global change research.
The Administration opposes the reduction to the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS). This reduction, particularly if combined with a reduction in the Department of Defense appropriations bill, would likely significantly delay the program and could result in a gap in satellite coverage. It is also critical that the House provide full funding for the National Weather Service's (NWS's) base activities and radiosonde replacement program. Finally, the Administration requests that the House fully fund the Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System (AWIPS) to allow the NWS to provide AWIPS coverage at all Weather Forecast Offices. Full funding of the AWIPS will help to continue modernization efforts to improve support of severe weather warnings and general forecasts.
While the Administration is pleased to see that the Manufacturing Extension Program has been fully funded, we are concerned with the freeze at the FY 1999 enacted level for in-house research and construction accounts of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). These funding levels would impede NIST's standards leadership and delay construction of its Advanced Measurement Laboratory.
The Administration urges the House to provide the $2 million requested for the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) to facilitate the long-term resolution of NTIS's financial problems in FY 2000. We anticipate working closely with the Congress in resolving these problems.
The Administration urges the House to strike language that would prohibit base funds from being used on Integrated Economic and Environmental satellite accounts. The National Research Council's recent analysis of this issue, which was requested by the Congress, reported favorably on BEA's initial work in this area.
The Committee significantly underfunds the annual assessed contributions funded through the Contributions to International Organizations and Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities accounts. The proposed funding levels would increase arrears and further inhibit chances for the reforms we all are seeking. The Administration is concerned that such funding levels would seriously impair the ability of the United States to address foreign policy interests through the mechanism of U.N. peacekeeping, especially in light of increasing requirements. The Committee continues a $100 million withholding for a UN budget cap certification, which would contribute to the possibility of the U.S. losing its vote in the UN as of January 1, 2000. We urge that this withholding be eliminated.