[
]
 Could I just say one word? This is Senator Graham, who is from the State of Florida in the United States. First of all, thank you for agreeing to meet with me. I know it must be hard to relive your story. But I think it is very important for us to be able to go home to the United States having seen not only the President, who is my friend—I enjoy that— but also the people who have lived personally through this terrible tragedy.
It is also important for the health of Nicaragua's democracy that he and I, when we respond to this terrible tragedy, respond in a way that helps you the most and that is consistent with your wishes. So I would like it if, in your own words, you could just tell us a little about what happened to you and your family and what would help most going forward.
[
]
 So he has two brothers now?
 One is 13, and one is 21.
 And are both of them living with him—he's living with both of them?
 Are you going to school, Juan Pablo?
 No.
 Why not, sweetie? You were going to school back in——
 No.
 No? Didn't you go to school back in—but there was a school there, wasn't there?
 Yes.
 Is your other brother going to school?
 Tonio.
 Tonio, is he the one going to school?
 No, he's not.
 And how many of your brothers and sisters died?
 Three.
 And his mother died.
 And you have uncles and aunts?
 No.
 Did your father have any brothers or sisters? What about your mother?
 One.
 And where are your uncles and aunts? Did they die?
 Yes, the whole family.
 So now it's you and your two brothers?
 Yes.
 And you have to stay close with them.
 Yes.
[
]
 No one from your home was saved, my dear? No one?
 My sisters were saved because they had gone to work in Costa Rica. But the people who were living there, who were still there from my family, I'm the only one who survived.
 And where were you?
 In El Porvenir.
 And that's exactly where the mudslide went through?
 When it came through, it was a terrible noise of helicopters. My husband went out, and he shouted at me, "Sweetheart, run." And I grabbed my little girl, and I ran out. But when I ran out, the house had been destroyed, and I was dragged by the water. I lost my little girl, and I never found her again.
 And your husband died, too?
 Yes. And my little girl was shouting at me, asking me to save her, but the water was dragging me away, and I couldn't do anything. I was struggling to try and stand up again, but I couldn't do anything. I couldn't see anything.
 And who rescued you?
 I was rescued by people from the Red Cross who were there and some people from the area. Two people from the area were there, as well. They found me. I was terrified, and they were able to get me out. They were able to dig me out of the mud. I was there stuck for 3 days.
 So what are you going to do now with your life?
 I still have problems with one knee. I want to get well, and I want to fend for myself, because now I have nothing and no one left. All I want to do now is work to survive and just get by.
 She said, "I just want to work until my day comes to go."
 That's all I'm waiting for.
 And what's wrong with your leg?
 I had a cast on this leg, and it wasn't set properly. And so now they have to x-ray it again and see what they can do.
 And where are you staying now?
 I'm over there in the shelter.
 You know, the President was explaining to me when we were coming out that the people need not only homes again but homes that are close enough to land which can be farmed again, because a lot of this land which is covered by the mud, even though it's dried out, it may or may not be suitable for crops now. And a lot of trees will have to be replanted to guard against further flooding.
So I think we in the United States have to try to get some financial help to the President to do that. And then you will have to work together to identify the land where the people can farm again, and then the houses can be built.
You were explaining that to me, on the way out, what you have done—find the land.
[
]
 I had four.
 All of them little?
 The oldest was 13. My little girl was 7—13, 12, 10, and 7.
 And how old are you?
 I'm 29.
 You're still young.
 So you became a mother when you were 16?
 What about you, Juan Pablo? Do you want to say anything to us? Do you want to say anything to your President about this terrible thing?
 I lost my whole family, and I miss them—my mama and my papa.
 Where are you living, Juan Pablo? With his brother?
 Yes.
 Yes, he lives at the co-op there with his brother.
 How many people are in that co-op? Fifty people, they said? And all these new people are coming in? You said that there are 2,500 people in a block. Will they accept them there?
[
]
 The co-ops themselves are doing that?
 Yes.
 We have to sit down and talk with them so we can convince them.
 I think what we need to do there is sit down, as I was saying, to see what points they propose, see what they want to do.
 And what about Juan Pablo's brothers? Have they already been admitted?
 No, they're in the same situation.
 So you're like squatters?
 No, I'm not there. I was given a parcel, it's 12x20, by an organization from the U.S., as well—in Washington. An Evangelical church gave us a little plot of land, about 6 blocks of——
 World Vision, was it World Vision?
 It's managed by the Evangelical Conference of the Assembly of God in Washington.
So since we didn't have anything, we said, "Okay, give me a little plot of land where I can go." And that's where I am. The only thing is that we're all so very much reduced right now and we're under so little plots of land.
 How much land did the average family farm before the hurricane and the mudslide?
 About 5 or 6 blocks—what they call blocks, which are actually more like hectares.
 Ten acres? So the average family had 10 acres?
 Per family, that's what each family had.
 And then this block, you say, with the 50 families, they have an average of 25 hectares?
 It's like, 100 acres per family—this particular group.
 So they could actually sell it out?
 And what they're doing is, they're renting out the land that they're not farming themselves.
 So it's your proposal for the Government to buy this land on behalf of the other people, if they will accept them?
 That would be the ideal situation. The problem is that the co-op with those 50 people—and it's very, very good land; they know that land, very fertile land. This coop got it back in the Sandinista days. So I don't think they're going to want to give it up. They're not going to give it to anyone or sell it. They prefer it, as he was saying, to rent it, to lease it, because it's better business for them. We'll see what measures can be taken. And the discussions we're trying to hold—we'll see how we can change this. Because the other problem we have, Mr. President, is there's land, but not in this area, not on the Pacific side.
 Too far away?
 This has been traditionally farm land. But we'll see what solution we find. Faith in God.
Juan Pablo, you have to go and study now. Do you promise you're going to study?
 Yes.
 Are you going to study? You promise?
 Yes.
 You can learn a lot and pray to God to take care of your mother and father. And they will know and be very proud of you.