This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the Veterans, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2001, as approved by the House Committee. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.
The President's FY 2001 Budget is based on a balanced approach that maintains fiscal discipline, eliminates the national debt, extends the solvency of Social Security and Medicare, provides for an appropriately sized tax cut, establishes a new voluntary Medicare prescription drug benefit in the context of broader reforms, expands health care coverage to more families, and funds critical investments for our future. An essential element of this approach is ensuring adequate funding for discretionary programs. To this end, the President has proposed discretionary spending limits at levels that we believe are necessary to serve the American people.
Unfortunately, the FY 2001 congressional budget resolution provides inadequate resources for discretionary investments. We need realistic levels of funding for critical government functions that the American people expect their government to perform well, including education, national security, law enforcement, environmental protection, preservation of our global leadership, air safety, food safety, economic assistance for the less fortunate, research and technology, and the administration of Social Security and Medicare. Based on the inadequate budget resolution, this bill fails to address critical needs of the American people.
The Committee allocation is $6 billion below the President's program level request. In order to approve a bill at the level of this allocation, the Committee has eliminated the Corporation for National and Community Service, and has severely reduced funding from the requests for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency's basic environmental and public health programs, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and other Administration priorities.
The Administration strongly opposes the Committee's action to terminate the Corporation for National and Community Service, including the AmeriCorps program. Eliminating funding for the Corporation would deny over one million young Americans the opportunity to provide vital community services and become better citizens as participants in the Corporation's AmeriCorps (62,000 participants) and Learn and Serve (1 million participants) programs. If the final bill presented to the President were to provide inadequate funding for the Corporation for National and Community Service, his senior advisers would recommend that the President veto the bill.
The Committee bill would also limit our ability to address poverty and the shortage of affordable housing, undermine investments in our future through space research and science and technology, reduce our ability to pursue critical opportunities in basic research through the National Science Foundation, adversely affect the environment and public health, and adversely affect our ability to respond quickly and fully to unforeseen disasters. Further, the Committee bill includes objectionable language provisions, such as anti-environmental riders, efforts to hamper the Department of Veterans Affairs ability to support the tobacco litigation using current statutory authority, and language limiting HUD's efforts to deliver vital services to the American people. For these reasons, if the bill were presented to the President in its current form, the President's senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.
Detailed discussions of certain of these issues, as well as additional Administration concerns with the Committee bill, are provided in the attachment. We look forward to working with the Committee to address our mutual concerns.
Attachment