This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2001, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. Your consideration of the Administration's views would be appreciated.
The President's FY 2001 Budget is based on a balanced approach that maintains fiscal discipline, eliminates the national debt, extends the solvency of Social Security and Medicare, provides for an appropriately sized tax cut, establishes a new voluntary Medicare prescription drug benefit in the context of broader reforms, expands health care coverage to more families, and funds critical investments for our future. An essential element of this approach is ensuring adequate funding for discretionary programs. To this end, the President has proposed discretionary spending limits at levels that we believe are necessary to serve the American people.
Unfortunately, the FY 2001 congressional budget resolution provides inadequate resources for discretionary investments. We need realistic levels of funding for critical government functions that the American people expect their government to perform well, including education, national security, law enforcement, environmental protection, preservation of our global leadership, air safety, food safety, economic assistance for the less fortunate, research and technology, and the administration of Social Security and Medicare. Based on the inadequate budget resolution, the Committee bill fails to address critical needs of the American people. In addition, the Committee bill includes an unacceptable language rider that would prohibit the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) from finalizing its standard to protect the Nation's workers from ergonomic injuries. For the reasons discussed below, if the bill were presented to the President in its current form, the President would veto the bill.
The Administration strongly opposes the provision in the bill that would prohibit the Occupational Safety and Health Administration from finalizing its standard to protect the Nation's workers from ergonomic injuries. Each year approximately 1.8 million American workers suffer musculoskeletal disorders (MSD), approximately one-third of which are serious enough to require time away from work. OSHA estimates that by the tenth year after the rule is in effect, it will have reduced general industry MSDs by 450,000. After more than 10 years of experience with ergonomic guidelines, exhaustive scientific study, five months of public comment and public hearings on the proposed regulations, and millions of unnecessary injuries, the Administration believes that it is time to move forward to finalize this regulation.
The House Committee bill would undermine our Nation's commitment to improving our schools by cutting $2.9 billion from the President's overall FY 2001 request for the Department of Education. The bill fails to fund key education priorities including funding to help strengthen accountability and turn around failing schools, reduce class size, improve after-school and summer-school opportunities, increase school safety, renovate aging and neglected schools, improve teacher quality, and prepare students for college. The most significant problems with the bill include the following:
The House Committee underfunds public health priorities, including mental health and substance abuse services, family planning, health care access for the uninsured, nursing home safety, and infectious diseases. The Administration is concerned about the following cuts to key health and social service programs:
The House Committee bill would cut the Labor Department by $1.7 billion, or 14 percent, from the request and $0.5 billion from the FY 2000 level. This level would threaten the viability of the new workforce development system as envisioned in the bipartisan Workforce Investment Act enacted in 1998. The bill would make deep cuts in worker training programs aimed at closing the skills gap, preparing workers for the 21st century, and helping employers reach out to an untapped pool of workers. These workers include high school dropouts, people leaving welfare, displaced workers, individuals with disabilities, and ex-offenders. In addition, the bill would cut programs that ensure safe and healthy workplaces, enforce domestic child labor laws, promote equal pay, and improve working conditions and reduce child labor in developing countries around the world.
In particular, the Administration is concerned about the following items in the Committee reported bill:
The House bill would fund the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) at the FY 2000 enacted level, $10 million, or five percent, below the President's request. As a result, NLRB would be forced to curtail backlog reduction efforts, essential training, and information technology investments.
At the House Committee funding level, the Social Security Administration would not be able to hire thousands of direct service employees, resulting in longer wait times for individuals filing retirement and disability claims, and diminished service for individuals who call the agency's 1-800 phone service.
The Administration appreciates the Committee's full funding for Corporation for Public Broadcasting's (CPB) FY 2003 request for general programming and system support, and urges the Committee to provide full funding in 2001 for CPB's digital transition initiative, which will help ensure that the public broadcasting system can meet the federally-mandated May 2003 deadline for digital broadcasting.
The bill contains objectionable language that would deny Federal funds for computers and Internet access to schools and libraries that have not installed software on their computers to block Internet access to illegal and inappropriate materials to minors. Currently, schools and libraries use a wide range of technology tools and monitoring techniques to ensure that children do not encounter inappropriate material and dangerous situations while online.
Recent studies confirm that virtually all schools that have Internet access have acceptable use policies in place. While the Administration strongly supports efforts to ensure that schools and libraries protect minors from inappropriate materials, the Federal Government should not mandate a particular type of technology, such as filtering or blocking software, in a dynamically changing technology environment. Rather, the Administration would support less burdensome and restrictive language that would require that schools and libraries develop their own acceptable use plans at the local level and certify their implementation.
The Rules Committee has made in order an amendment to be offered by Representative Wilson for a new $25 million teacher recruitment and quality improvement program -- the 21st Century Teaching Scholarships Act -- "if such legislation is enacted." This amendment would be offset with a cut of $25 million in funding for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. The Administration strongly opposes the offset for this amendment. It will undermine the Department of Labor's efforts to protect our Nation's workers through the protections provided under the OSHA law, result in a cut of 375 FTE, and lead to RIFs and furloughs of OSHA employees. It is a cut of nearly 7% below last year's level, and a 16% cut below the President's request. The amendment will deny consultation visits to 1,800 small employers and reduce inspections by 8,850, mostly in construction and other high hazard workplaces. The Administration strongly urges the House to reject this ill-conceived reduction. With regard to the spending portion of the amendment, the Administration continues to support efforts to improve the quality of the Nation's teaching corps, such as the Hometown Teachers initiative, proposed in the President's budget.