The Administration strongly opposes House passage of H.R. 2418, which would reauthorize the National Organ Transplantation Act (NOTA). H.R. 2418 raises serious Constitutional issues, would preserve existing inequities in the organ transplantation system, and could result in potential harm to patients. If H.R. 2418 were presented to the President in its current form, his senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.
The effects of the current organ allocation policies established by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN) are inequitable because patients with similar severities of illness are treated differently, depending on where they may live or at which transplant center they may be listed. For this reason, the Department of Health and Human Services issued regulations, which became effective March 16th, that establish a framework for organ allocation policies, to be developed by the network, that are based on sound medical judgment, and that are fairer and more equitable for all parties. Unfortunately, H.R. 2418 would not result in a fairer system for all patients in this country. Rather, it is seriously flawed legislation because it:
The Administration could support the amendment offered by Representatives LaHood, Moakley, Rush, Peterson (John) and others. Similar to the current regulation, it reflects the recommendations made by the Institute of Medicine in its Congressionally mandated study of organ allocation policies and it strikes the proper balance between medical judgments being made by transplant professionals and the need for public accountability for tax payer funds. It articulates clear principles to guide organ allocation policy, designed to protect the interests of patients. It assures that data necessary to evaluate and improve the organ transplant system are provided to the public. It avoids the serious constitutional problems that are raised with H.R. 2418. Further, it promotes organ donation, the single most important factor in dealing with the shortage of transplantable organs. In sum, if Congress determines that legislation to update the National Organ Transplant Act is desirable, the amendment offered by Representatives LaHood, Moakley, Rush, Peterson (John) and others represents a thoughtful legislative response.
The Administration urges the Congress to develop NOTA reauthorization legislation that better reflects the recommendations of the Institute of Medicine and that results in a fairer transplantation system for all patients in this country and their families.