Romolo A. Bernardi, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Cardell Cooper, resigned.
Ralph F. Boyd, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Bill Lann Lee, resigned.
William J. Burns, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs), vice Edward S. Walker, Jr.
Ann Laine Combs, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Leslie Beth Kramerich.
Michael Joseph Copps, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of five years from July 1, 1999, vice Susan Ness, term expired.
Lorne W. Craner, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, vice Harold Hongju Koh.
Ruth A. Davis, of Georgia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Marc Grossman.
Linnet F. Deily, of California, to be a Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Rita D. Hayes, resigned.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Douglas Jay Feith, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Policy, vice Walter Becker Slocombe.
Linda J. Fisher, of the District of Columbia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice W. Michael McCabe, resigned.
Peter R. Fisher, of New Jersey, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Gary Gensler, resigned.
J. Steven Griles, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice David J. Hayes, resigned.
Eugene Hickok, of Pennsylvania, to be Under Secretary of Education, vice Judith A. Winston, resigned.
Alphonso R. Jackson, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Saul N. Ramirez, Jr., resigned.
Brian Jones, of California, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice Judith A. Winston, resigned.
Jacob Lozada, of Puerto Rico, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Eugene A. Brickhouse, resigned.
Gordon H. Mansfield, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Congressional Affairs), vice Edward P. Scott, resigned.
Alfred Rascon, of California, to be Director of Selective Service, vice Gil Coronado, resigned.
Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice Henry L. Solano, resigned.
Thomas Scully, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, vice Nancy-Ann Min Deparle.
John Charles Weicher, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice William C. Apgar, Jr., resigned.