Francis S. Blake, of Connecticut, to be Deputy Secretary of Energy, vice T. J. Glauthier, resigned.
Nora Mead Brownell, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a term expiring June 30, 2006. (Reappointment)
Nora Mead Brownell, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2001, vice Vicky A. Bailey, resigned.
David S. C. Chu, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, vice Bernard Daniel Rostker.
Shinae Chun, of Illinois, to be Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, vice Irasema Garza.
James Laurence Connaughton, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Council on Environmental Quality, vice George T. Frampton, Jr.
Gordon England, of Texas, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Richard Danzig.
Donald Cameron Findlay, of Illinois, to be Deputy Secretary of Labor, vice Edward B. Montgomery, resigned.
Carl W. Ford, Jr., of Arkansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice J. Stapleton Roy, resigned.
Richard A. Hauser, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Gail W. Laster, resigned.
Jeffrey R. Holmstead, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Robert W. Perciasepe, resigned.
Robert D. McCallum, Jr., of Georgia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice David W. Ogden, resigned.
Susan B. Neuman, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, vice Michael Cohen, resigned.
Jessie Hill Roberson, of Alabama, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environmental Management), vice Carolyn L. Huntoon, resigned.
John E. Robson, of California, to be President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2005, vice James A. Harmon, resigned.
Christina B. Rocca, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs, vice Karl Frederick Inderfurth.