The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 1, which reflects the themes of "No Child Left Behind", the President's comprehensive proposal to reform the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA). The Administration is pleased that H.R. 1, as reported by the Committee on Education and the Workforce, incorporates many of the basic components of the President's key proposals to: (1) require States to conduct annual testing in reading and math for students in grades 3 through 8, to help States, schools, and parents know who is on track and who needs extra help; (2) consolidate numerous programs relating to teacher quality, bilingual education, educational technology, and choice and innovation into performance-based grants to States that would allow States and local school districts to direct Federal funds where they are most needed; (3) make reading the foundation of education reform by establishing new "Reading First" and "Early Reading First" programs to support scientifically-based methods to ensure that all children can read by the end of third grade; (4) strengthen accountability provisions designed to turn around failing schools; and (5) empower parents with choices when their children are trapped in failing schools.
The Administration urges the House to refine the Committee bill to conform to additional elements of the President's proposal, as described below, while maintaining fiscal discipline.
. The Administration has serious concerns with several amendments that it understands may be offered, including the following:
. Title III, Part B of the ESEA, as amended by H.R. 1 would authorize education grants to, or for the benefit of, people who are classified as Eskimos, Aleuts, and other Alaska Natives, which may raise constitutional questions.
The Administration urges the House to amend H.R. 1 to address the concerns outlined above, as well as other concerns with the Committee bill. Finally, the Administration will continue to work with Congress as the legislative process moves forward, to ensure that the final education package embodies the themes of the President's proposal.