The President's 2001 International Trade Agenda 2001 International Trade Legislative Agenda

  "Open trade fuels the engines of economic growth that create new jobs and new income. It applies the power of markets to the needs of the poor. It spurs the process of economic and legal reform. It helps dismantle protectionist bureaucracies that stifle incentive and invite corruption. And open trade reinforces the habits of liberty that sustain democracy over the long term."
-- President George W. Bush, April 17, 2001
For some 60 years, Presidents and Congresses of both parties worked together to open markets around the globe. This successful collaboration is among the main reasons for 17 years of economic growth, peace and freedom that we know today.
But since 1994, the Executive Branch has not had the authority it needs from the Congress to negotiate agreements to continue this prosperity. The bill has now come due. The European Union has 27 preferential or special customs agreements with other countries and is negotiating 15 more. Japan is negotiating a free trade agreement with Singapore and considering agreements with Mexico, Korea and Chile. There are over 130 preferential trade agreements in the world today -- and the United States is a party to only two of them.
Now, more than ever, U.S. leadership is essential to reinvigorating the international trading system, including launching a new round of global negotiations, as well as regional and bilateral negotiations.
History has shown that expanded trade -- imports as well as exports -- leads to more prosperous U.S. businesses, more choices of goods and lower prices for consumers, and more opportunities for American farmers and workers leading to higher wages, more jobs and economic growth. Expanding trade brings particular benefits to lower-income Americans who are squeezed both as consumers and taxpayers.
Expanding trade also has many benefits abroad. Open markets promote economic and political freedom around the world; economic and political freedom in turn creates competition, opportunity and independent thinking that strengthen democracy; and greater political freedom and democracy across the globe substantially enhance U.S. national security. As we dismantle trade barriers around the world, especially in the developing world, we help create the economic and social conditions necessary for countries to make progress on the environment, observance of labor standards, the protection of children, and other critical issues.
The President's trade agenda for 2001 is intended to further each of these benefits of expanding markets for American consumers, farmers and workers, and to advance a forward strategy for freedom, economic development and increased living standards around the world by pursuing a new round of global trade negotiations, a Free Trade Area of the Americas, and other important regional and bilateral agreements.
President Bush's 2001 legislative agenda for international trade, outlined below, reflects his commitment to open markets around the world for American workers, farmers, and businesses and to provide lower prices and greater choices for U.S. consumers and industries. It also reflects the President's commitment to work with the Congress to rebuild the bipartisan consensus for American leadership in the trade arena. It serves no one's interest for the United States to remain on the sidelines.
For that reason, the President has placed enactment of U.S. Trade Promotion Authority at the top of his trade legislative agenda. The attached outline presents aconceptual framework that distills those principles the President believes should shape a renewed grant of trade negotiating authority. Central to this approach is flexibility for the President to take full advantage of the market-opening opportunities that present themselves in the coming years while maintaining the closest possible consultation and collaboration with the Congress.
The President seeks to build an American trade agenda from the ground up, reflecting the views and interests of American farmers, workers, businesses, and the American people. Our negotiating objectives -- to open foreign markets for U.S. goods, services, farm products, and intellectual property, combat unfair trade practices, protect American businesses abroad from discriminatory treatment to name but a few -- must represent an agenda that serves the interests of all Americans.
An important part of that agenda is addressing trade-related labor and environmental concerns. As President Bush said last month in Quebec City: "Our commitment to open trade must be matched by a strong commitment to protecting our environment and improving labor standards."
The conceptual framework for U.S. Trade Promotion Authority set out below recognizes that there are many ways to carry out this commitment. The TPA framework makes clear that these goals must be pursued in a way that respects U.S. sovereignty and avoids self-defeating protectionism.
Enclosed with this agenda is an illustrative "toolbox" of actions that the United States can take in combination with trade negotiations to promote these important goals. The President has expressed his desire to work with the Congress to refine these ideas as well as the other concepts included in the framework for U.S. Trade Promotion Authority.
The outline that follows also describes the other key components of the President's 2001 trade legislative agenda. As an important complement to the grant of U.S. Trade Promotion Authority, the President seeks to improve this country's trade adjustment assistance programs for workers by emphasizing improvements in skills training. To rebuild a national consensus in support of trade, American workers must have the tools that allow them to compete in new jobs and new industries when job transitions occur. Consistent with the President's overall goals for training and education, these programs should increasingly be geared toward helping American workers meet the challenges of the 21st century.
The President's agenda also asks the Congress to implement three important commercial agreements to help bolster security and promote open markets in vital regions of the world -- a bilateral free-trade agreement with Jordan and bilateral trade agreements with Vietnam and Laos. In addition, the President urges the Congress to re-authorize the Generalized System of Preferences program and Andean Trade Preferences Act, and pass legislation providing similar trade benefits for the nations of southeast Europe, a region that has been beset by conflict in recent years. These programs are important because they allow us to help developing countries and emerging markets begin the process of integrating themselves into the world trading system.
Last year, the Congress enacted the African Growth and Opportunity Act to encourage and promote economic growth and reform in sub-Saharan Africa. This legislation holds real promise for helping to integrate African economies into the world trading system. The Congress should consider whether more progress can be made along these lines.
In conclusion, the President has developed a broad trade legislative agenda that serves America's best interests. The Administration is committed to working with the Congress, the states, and interested groups to shape the agenda and build the consensus needed to pass trade legislation with overwhelming bipartisan support. From the President's perspective, now is the time to roll up our sleeves and get to work on behalf of American workers, farmers, businesses, and a brighter American future.

          

      
Expand market opportunities for U.S. goods, services and intellectual property by:

      

      

      
The President needs U.S. Trade Promotion Authority for a sufficient time to allow completion of several regional and bilateral agreements and to begin and possibly complete global trade negotiations. Anextension mechanism would also allow the Congress to determine whether to continue this authority.
The President will need the appropriate authority to reduce tariffs, including the authority to fulfill the objectives of WTO zero-for-zero and harmonization agreements.

  
Re-authorize and improve Trade Adjustment Assistance programs to promote worker re-training necessitated by sudden economic dislocation.

  

  

  

  

  
The following illustrative list identifies a "toolbox" of actions the United States could take in combination with trade negotiations to promote the protection of children, adherence to core labor standards, and mutually supportive trade and environmental protection policies.