[Released June 23, 1930. Dated June 21, 1930]
My dear Senator:
In accordance with our discussion, I am sending herewith communications from Secretary Mellon and General Hines, Director of the Veterans Bureau, on the subject of the World War Veterans legislation now before the Congress, showing the result of their investigation into the effect of the bill reported this week to the Senate. These memorandums confirm the views which I have expressed during the past few weeks and I believe the Congress and the public should be informed thereon.
General Hines states that the bill which has been passed by the House of Representatives will add directly to our present expenditure for World War Veterans (at present $511,000,000 per annum) by $181,000,000 for the first year, increasing annually until it reaches a possible additional sum of $400,000,000 a year. This bill as amended by Senate Committee will add directly $102,000,000 the first year, ultimately rising to the addition of a sum of $225,000,000 per annum. Even these estimates are far from including the whole of the potential obligations created by the principles embraced in this legislation and the uncertain added expense by certain amendments to previous legislation.
Mr. Mellon states that the passage of this legislation implies positive increase of taxation at the next session of Congress.
It does not appear that these bills even represent the real views of the various veterans organizations. The American Legion, after careful study as to what they considered the needs of their fellow veterans, proposed legislation which would require an additional annual expenditure of $35,000,000 per annum. Thus these measures which are before Congress represent an implied increase in expenditure of from three to ten times what these veterans themselves consider would be just. The Veterans of Foreign Wars and other organizations have contended for measures differing entirely from those now proposed.
General Hines has pointed out that this legislation goes far beyond immediate necessities and that of even more importance, it creates grave inequalities, injustices, and discriminations among veterans resulting from the methods adopted or extended in those bills, and creates future dangers to both the public and the veterans. The very fact that the Committees of Congress and the various veterans associations have themselves been during the past six months of many minds upon these questions indicates their extreme difficulty. There certainly comes from it all the conclusion that we should either have a sound plan now or should have more time for determination of national policy upon established principles in dealing with these questions for the future. We must arrive at such a basis as will discharge our manifest national obligation with equity among veterans and to the public.
I do not wish to be misunderstood. There are cases of veterans who are in need of help today who are suffering and to whom I earnestly wish to see generous treatment given. But these situations do not reach anything like the dimensions of these measures.
We have stretched government expenditures in the budget beginning July 1st to the utmost of our possible receipts, and have even incurred a probable deficit principally for the relief of unemployment through expansion of public construction. Every additional dollar of expenditure means an additional dollar in taxes. This is no time to increase the tax burden of the country. I recognize that such considerations would carry but little weight with our people were the needs of our veterans the issue, and were we dealing with sound measures; but as General Hines presents, there are conclusive reasons for opposing an unsound measure which is against the best interests of the veterans themselves and places an unjustified load upon the taxpayers at a time when every effort should be made to lighten it.
I do not believe that just criticism or opposition should arise to such suggestions upon full understanding of the situation for I know that the great body of patriotic men who served in the World War themselves recognize that there are limits to expenditure and there are principles that should be adhered to if we are not to prejudice their interest both as veterans and citizens.

Yours faithfully,
HERBERT HOOVER
[Honorable James E. Watson, United States Senate, Washington, D.C.]