The President and members of Congress from both parties are implementing a $40 billion emergency response package to help deal with the tragic events of September 11. This funding will ensure that the U.S. has the resources to respond to and recover from the attacks and to protect national security.
Billions of dollars have already been released to assist in New York and the other impacted areas -- and more funding is on the way. Examples of the important activities being funded in New York and the other areas include:
 These funds will support overall emergency assistance in New York and other affected jurisdictions. This includes costs associated with debris removal and emergency protective measures, as well as individual and family assistance, search and rescue, and other disaster assistance efforts.
 These funds will provide assistance for the health-related needs of the disaster-affected areas of the New York metropolitan area, Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia.
 These funds will support $400 million in low-interest disaster loans for renters, homeowners, and businesses in designated disaster areas.
 These funds will support the immediate response and recovery needs of the approximately 1,000 Treasury employees who were located in or near the World Trade Center complex, most of whose offices were destroyed.
 These amounts will provide funding for: the Department of Labor's Dislocated Workers program to provide temporary jobs to assist in clean-up and restoration efforts in New York; assistance to cover immediate information technology and other costs of disaster recovery for unemployment insurance claims processing that need to be relocated; and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's monitoring of health and safety at the disaster sites.
 These amounts will provide funding for National Park Service and U.S. Park Police emergency response costs in New York City and Washington, DC, as well as increased security patrols in both cities.
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission's New York office, which was located in the World Trade Center, will use these funds to purchase computers and office equipment for its temporary space.
 The President has authorized FEMA to provide an unprecedented level of assistance. For example, the President has authorized FEMA to pay for 100 percent of public assistance activities in New York and at the Pentagon (typically, states pay 25 percent of these costs). This marks the first time FEMA will cover the entire share of public assistance expenses. Examples of public assistance activities include debris removal and repair and restoration of public facilities. In addition:
 Labor is working to ensure the safety of the World Trade Center site for rescue personnel and is providing financial assistance to dislocated workers.
 More than 570 (HHS) personnel are deployed in the New York City area to augment medical personnel assisting victims and recovery workers.
 Along with FEMA and other Federal agencies, SBA's Disaster Loan Program has set up Disaster Field Offices in New York and Virginia where disaster victims may come for assistance.
 EPA is monitoring the disaster sites to ensure that rescue workers and the public are not facing dangerous environmental risks.
 Corps structural engineering teams have been surveying buildings and structures in New York City so the city can assure the safety of search, rescue and debris-removal operations in and around the affected areas. The Corps is also developing a debris operations plan for the New York City. In addition, the Corps is considering potential improvements to a harbor facility for removing debris by barge.
 The IRS and Treasury have extended deadlines for all taxpayers affected by the tragedy.