The Administration supports forward-looking legislation that facilitates long-term prosperity for the nation's farmers and ranchers. The Administration believes it is possible to craft a policy that is better for rural America, better for the environment, and better for expanding markets for our producers than H.R. 2646. Hence, the Administration does not support H.R. 2646 and urges the House of Representatives to defer action on the bill.
H.R. 2646 would increase federal spending by more than $70 billion over the next ten years. The current farm bill does not expire until September 2002. In the context of the current state of the nation, consideration of large new financial commitments that do not require immediate action are not timely. In addition, we believe a ten-year farm bill, which is unprecedented, would limit our flexibility to address the rapidly changing agriculture sector over the next decade. As drafted, H.R. 2646 misses the opportunity to modernize the nation's farm programs through market-oriented tools, innovative environmental programs, including extending benefits to working lands, and aid programs that are consistent with our trade agenda. The Administration recognizes the essential and unique nature of our farm sector, but now is not the appropriate time for consideration of this bill.
Over the past decade, the nation's farm sector has changed significantly due to new production and information technologies, globalization, industry consolidation, and environmental concerns. H.R. 2646 does not reflect these changes. Specifically, the bill:
Moreover, today's economic uncertainty makes this the wrong time to lock in $170 billion in long-term spending. More time is needed for the fiscal picture to clear. In the near-term, the Administration is focusing on recovery and national security. During this period, spending in other important areas must be balanced against these priorities.
The specific timing and extent of necessary offsets for this spending will require more information regarding expected farm conditions, future economic conditions, the nature of the offsets, and the anticipated obligations that will result from any new entitlements or programs. This information will become much clearer by the end of this year. This should allow plenty of time to adjust agriculture program spending or find offsets, if necessary, before a bill is marked up next year.
The Administration strongly believes that a methodical examination of all farm policy is needed at this time. The Administration believes that acting now on the significant fiscal and policy commitments of H.R. 2646 would be premature. The upcoming year will provide Congress and the Administration a valuable opportunity to take a much-needed critical review of the nation's agricultural and rural economy, examine the policy's implications for our trade relationships, and evaluate our long-term fiscal capacity. The Administration looks forward to working with Congress to develop a farm policy that better serves and balances these interests.
H.R. 2646 would increase direct spending above the baseline and, therefore, would be subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. The Office of Management and Budget's preliminary scoring estimates of this bill are presented in the table below. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from this estimate.