"The devastation across the globe left by AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis, the sheer number of those infected and dying is almost beyond comprehension. We have the power to help. The United States is committed to working with other nations to reduce suffering and to spare lives."
--President George W. Bush May 11, 2001
"I believe today will be remembered as the day we begin to turn the tide."
--UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan May 11, 2001
The Tragedy of HIV/AIDS and Infectious Diseases: Collectively, HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis are ravaging developing countries, causing 25 percent of all deaths in these nations worldwide:
U.S. Leadership: On May 11, 2001, the President, accompanied by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Nigerian President Obasanjo, both of whom are attending the Genoa Summit, declared U.S. support for a global fund to fight the AIDS pandemic. To ensure its effectiveness, he called for a fund that:
The President also announced that the United States would be the first nation to make a commitment to the fund -- with a first-year founding contribution of $200 million.
Today's G-8 Action: The G-8 has been working hard to make the concept of a fund a reality. Today in Genoa, the G-8 Leaders and the UN Secretary-General formally launched the new global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis. The fund follows the structure and principles set out by President Bush in May. Importantly, the G-8 Leaders committed to making the fund operational by January 1, 2002:
The U.S. Commitment to Fighting HIV/AIDS Worldwide: The United States has been a leader in the global fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis:
In April, President Bush expanded the mandate of the Office of National AIDS Policy (ONAP) to better promote and coordinate domestic and international policy efforts on HIV/AIDS. ONAP is supporting a high-level task force -- co-chaired by the Secretary of Sate and the Secretary of Health and Human Services -- to coordinate the Administration's activities and responses to all aspects of the domestic and international HIV/AIDS crisis.