President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual to serve in his administration and his intention to appoint twelve individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intend to nominate Raymond Burghardt to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as the Director of the American Institute of Taiwan at Taipei since 1999. He served as Principal Officer in Shanghai from 1997 to 1999, Deputy Chief of Mission in Manila from 1993 to 1996 and Deputy Chief of Mission in Seoul from 1990 to 1993. He has held numerous other positions overseas including Political Officer in Beijing, Tegucigalpa, Hong Kong, Guatemala and Saigon. Burghardts Washington assignments include service in a variety of capacities in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. A resident of Sarasota, Florida, he is a graduate of Columbia University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission on Fine Arts for four-year terms:
Donald Capoccia of New York
Pamela Nelson of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry:
Buzz Aldrin of California
Michael Bolen of Kansas
Neil deGrasse Tyson of New York
Robert Walker of Pennsylvania
Heidi R. Wood of Massachusetts
John W. Douglas of Virginia
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee to the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation:
For a term expiring 2/19/04 -
Matthew Fong of California
Barry Wynn of South Carolina
For a term expiring 2/19/03 -
Betsy Atkins of Florida
The President intends to appoint the following individual to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting
Cheryl Feldman Halpern, of New Jersey
The President intends to appoint Robert Martin to be Acting Chairperson of the National Endowments for the Arts.