 there are located in unsurveyed townships twenty-three and twenty-four south, range twenty-one east, and twenty-four south, range twenty-two east of the Salt Lake meridian, in Grand County, Utah, two areas, known locally as the "Devil's Garden" and the "Windows," containing approximately 2,600 acres and 1,920 acres, respectively;
 these areas contain extraordinary examples of wind erosion in the shape of gigantic arches, natural bridges, "windows," spires, balanced rocks, and other unique wind-worn sandstone formations, the preservation of which is desirable because of their educational and scenic value;
 it appears that the public interest would be promoted by reserving these features as a national monument, together with such land as may be needed for the protection thereof;
 President of the United States of America, by virtue of the power in me vested by section two of the act of Congress entitled, "An Act for the Preservation of American Antiquities," approved June 8, 1906 (34 Stat. 225), do proclaim that there are hereby reserved from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws and set apart as a national monument all those pieces and parcels of land in Grand County, State of Utah, shown as the Arches National Monument upon the diagram hereto annexed and made a part hereof, subject to prior valid claims and pending applications for permits to prospect for potassium under the act of Congress approved October 2, 1917 (40 Stat. 297), provided that they do not involve the ultimate disposition of the title of the United States to any lands within the area hereby reserved.
Warning is hereby expressly given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate, injure, destroy or remove any feature of this Monument and not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.
The Director of the National Park Service, under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior, shall have the supervision, management, and control of this Monument as provided in the act of Congress entitled, "An Act to establish a National Park Service and for other purposes," approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), and acts additional thereto or amendatory thereof.
 I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States to be affixed.
 at the City of Washington this 12th day of April in the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and fifty-third.
HERBERT HOOVER
By the President:
HENRY L. STIMSON
Secretary of State.