IN PURSUANCE of the resolution of Congress approved February 28, 1929, authorizing the President to "appoint a commission, consisting of five members, to be known as the Yellowstone National Park Boundary Commission, whose duty it shall be to inspect the areas involved in the proposed adjustment of the southeast, south, and southwest boundaries of the Yellowstone National Park," the President has today appointed the following as members of the Commission:
DR. E. E. BROWNELL, San Francisco, California
DR. ARTHUR MORGAN, president, Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio
DR. T. GILBERT PEARSON, president, National Association of Audubon Societies, 1974 Broadway, New York City
MR. C. H. RAMSDELL, 937 Metropolitan Life Building, Minneapolis, Minnesota
MR. ARTHUR RINGLAND, The Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.
Dr. Brownell and Dr. Pearson are interested in the conservation of wildlife, and in the conservation principles embodied in national park creation and development, and their points of view will be particularly important in consideration of the wildlife aspect of the proposed boundary extension on the Upper Yellowstone.
President Morgan of Antioch College will contribute his outstanding skill, experience, and training in the solution of the engineering problems from an irrigation and power standpoint involved in the Bechler River boundary disputes in their bearing on the park.
Mr. Ramsdell ranks high among the landscape architects in this country, and as one of the principal questions involved in the Bechler River problem is whether or not that area is a scenic region worthy of retention in the park system, his presence on the Commission will be invaluable; he is a member of the National Park Committee of the American Association of Landscape Architects.
Mr. Ringland was formerly secretary of the National Conference on Outdoor Recreation, and of the Coordinating Commission in 1925, and formerly with the United States Forest Service. He is, therefore, acquainted with the forest resources that will be affected by any park boundary adjustments.