President Bush Today Announced His Intention to Nominate Three Individuals and Appoint Twelve Individuals to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint twelve individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Mark C. Brickell of New York, to be Director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, for a term of five years. He is currently the Director and CEO of Blackbird Holdings. Prior to this, he served as the Managing Director of J.P. Morgan & Company, where he worked for 25 years. He is a graduate of the University of Chicago and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Richard W. Moore of Alabama, to be Inspector General of the Tennessee Valley Authority. Mr. Moore currently serves as Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of Alabama. He also currently serves as the Anti-Terrorism Task Force Coordinator for the Southern District of Alabama. Earlier in his career, he worked in private practice as an associate at the firm Gibbs & Craze, LLP. He is a graduate of Spring Hill College and received his law degree from Cumberland School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Joseph LeBaron of Oregon, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. A career member of the Foreign Service, he currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary with the Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR) at the Department of State. Prior to this assignment, he was Director of the INR's Office of Intelligence Operation. He has also served as Director of the Office of Iran and Iraq Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Manama and Consul General in Dubai. He earned his bachelor's degree from Portland State University and went on to receive his master's degree and Ph.D. from Princeton University.
The President intends to appoint Janice Obuchowski of Virginia, to accord the Personal Rank of Ambassador during her tenure as the United States Representative to the 2003 World Radiocommunications Conference. She is currently the President of Freedom Technologies, Inc. Ms. Obuchowski is a graduate of Wellesley College and went on to earn her law degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board:
The President intends to appoint Douglas Anderson of Illinois, to serve for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2006. Mr. Anderson is currently an associate at LCM Architects, in Chicago. He is a graduate of Wheaton College and earned his M.B.A. from the University of Illinois.
The President intends to appoint James Elekes of New Jersey, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2006. Mr. Elekes currently serves as Adjunct Professor at Essex County College. He earned his bachelor's and master's degree from Seton Hall University.
The President intends to appoint Denis Pratt of Maine, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2003. He is currently an Architect and Accessibility Specialist with Alpha One. Mr. Pratt is a graduate of Rhode Island School of Design.
The President intends to appoint Gwendolyn Trujillo of Ohio, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring December 3, 2006. Ms. Trujillo is currently a teacher at Lakota West High School in Ohio. She is a graduate of Gallaudet University and received her master's in education from the University of Arkansas. She went on to earn a master's degree in social work from the University of Cincinnati.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science:
The President intends to appoint Bruce N. Ames of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2003. Dr. Ames is currently Senior Scientist at the Children's Hospital of Oakland Research Institute, in California. He is a graduate of Cornell University and went on to earn his Ph.D. from California Institute of Technology.
The President intends to appoint Randolph W. Bromery of Massachusetts, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2004. Dr. Bromery is currently Commonwealth Professor of Geophysics Emeritus at the University of Massachusetts. He graduated from Howard University, went on to earn his master's degree from American University, and a Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to appoint Francisco G. Cigarroa of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2003. He is the current President of the University of Texas Health Science Center. He is a graduate of Yale University and earned his medical degree from the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, at Dallas.
The President intends to appoint Winfred M. Phillips of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2004. Dr. Phillips is currently the Vice President for Research and the Dean of the Graduate School at the University of Florida Research and Graduate Program. He received his B.S.M.E. from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Mechanical Engineering and M.A.E. and D.S.c. degrees form the University of Virginia.
The President intends to appoint Peter H. Raven of Missouri, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2003. Dr. Raven is currently the Director of the Missouri Botanical Garden. He is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and earned his Ph.D. from the University of California at Los Angeles.
The President intends to appoint Jean'ne Marie Shreeve of Idaho, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2004, and upon appointment, designate Chairman. Dr. Shreeve is currently a Professor of chemistry at the University of Idaho. Dr. Shreeve is a graduate of the University of Montana, received a master's from the University of Minnesota and a Ph.D. from the University of Idaho.
The President intends to appoint Margaret H. Wright of New Jersey, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 31, 2003. Dr. Wright is the current Chairwoman of the Department of Computer Science at New York University. She is a graduate of Stanford University, where she also earned her master's degree and her Ph.D.