President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his administration
The President intends to nominate Dee Ann McWilliams of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. As an active member of the U.S. Army, Major General McWilliams is currently the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel and Installation Management for the U.S. Army in Europe and the Seventh Army. Previously she was the Director of Military Personnel Management with the Department of the Army. She was awarded the U.S. Army Distinguished Service Medal for her service. Major General McWilliams earned both her bachelor's and master's degrees from the Steven F. Austin University. She went on to earn a second master's degree in national security strategy from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Joseph Robert Goeke of Illinois, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of 15 years. He is currently a partner at the law firm of Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw, where he has practiced tax litigation since 1988. From 1980 until 1988, Mr. Goeke worked in the Chief Counsel's Office at the Internal Revenue Service. He began his service at the I.R.S. as a trial attorney, moved up to senior trial attorney, and eventually became a special international trial attorney. Mr. Goeke is a graduate of Xavier University and he earned his J.D. from the University of Kentucky.
The President intends to nominate Ricardo H. Hinojosa of Texas, to be a Member of the United States Sentencing Commission for a term of six years. Judge Hinojosa has served on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas since 1983. He is also currently an Adjunct Professor at South Texas Law School. He graduated with honors from the University of Texas at Austin, and earned his law degree from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Michael E. Horowitz of Maryland, to be a Member of the United States Sentencing Commission for a term of six years. Mr. Horowitz is currently a partner with the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. Previously, he served as Chief of Staff and Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served in various posts at the U.S. Attorney's Office in New York, including Chief of the Public Corruption Unit and Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division. He graduated with honors from Brandeis University and earned his law degree from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to appoint Eric Steven Lander of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Cancer Advisory Board for the remainder of a six year term, expiring March 3, 2006. Dr. Lander, a geneticist, molecular biologist, and mathematician, is a member of the Whitehead Institute and the founder and director of the Whitehead Institute -- M.I.T. Center for Genome Research. He is also a professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In addition to his work in biology, he was an assistant and associate professor of managerial economics at the Harvard Business School from 1981 until 1990. He earned his bachelor's degree in mathematics from Princeton University and his Ph.D. in mathematics from Oxford University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for two-year terms:
James Philip Hoffa, General President of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Paul Norman Beckner, President and CEO of Citizens for a Sound Economy