Claude A. Allen, Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2003, vice John F. Hicks, Sr., term expired.
Barry C. Barish, of California, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Eamon M. Kelly, term expired.
Steven C. Beering, of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for the remainder of the term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Chang-Lin Tien, resigned.
Lillian R. BeVier, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Hulett Hall Askew, term expired.
Robert Boldrey, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring May 26, 2007, vice Judith M. Espinosa, term expired.
Malcolm B. Bowekaty, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2006, vice Bill Anoatubby, term expired.
Ray M. Bowen, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Vera C. Rubin, term expired.
Jewel Spears Brooker, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Peggy Whitman Prenshaw, term expired.
Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years expiring July 29, 2007. (Reappointment)
Douglas Carnine, of Oregon, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of three years. (New Position)
Albert Casey, of Texas, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2009, vice Tirso del Junco, term expired.
Celeste Colgan, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Jon N. Moline, term expired.
Harlon Eugene Costner, of North Carolina, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina, for the term of four years, vice Becky Jane Wallace.
Harold Damelin, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Small Business Administration, vice Phyllis K. Fong.
Robert J. Dieter, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005, vice F. William McCalpin, term expired.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Naomi Churchill Earp, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2005, vice Reginald Earl Jones, term expired.
Peter Eide, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority Board for a term of five years, vice Joseph Swerdzewski, resigned.
Blanca E. Enriquez, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of three years. (New Position)
Delores M. Etter, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice John A. Armstrong, term expired.
Dario Fernandez-Morera, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Susan E. Trees, term expired.
Kenneth M. Ford, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice M.R.C. Greenwood, term expired.
Jose A. Fourquet, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2004, vice Mark L. Schneider, term expired.
Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Lorraine Weiss Frank, term expired.
Feliciano Foyo, of Florida, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting for a term expiring August 12, 2004, vice Jorge L. Mas.
Adolfo A. Franco, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2008, vice Jeffrey Davidow, resigned.
Emil H. Frankel, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transporation, vice Eugene A. Conti, Jr., resigned.
Thomas A. Fuentes, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2005, vice Thomas F. Smegal, Jr., term expired.
Humberto S. Garcia, of Puerto Rico, to be United States Attorney for the District of Puerto Rico for the term of four years, vice Daniel F. Lopez Romo, resigned.
William Preston Graves, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring December 10, 2005, vice Mel Carnahan.
Grant S. Green, Jr., of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources. (New Position)
Herbert Guenther, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term of two years. (New Position)
Cheryl Feldman Halpern, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2008, vice Heidi H. Schulman, term expired.
Mark Moki Hanohano, of Hawaii, to be United States Marshal for the District of Hawaii for the term of four years, vice Howard Hikaru Tagomori.
Daniel E. Hastings, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Bob H. Suzuki, term expired.
Richard F. Healing, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2006, vice George W. Black, Jr., term expired.
David Hertz, of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2006, vice Henry Glassie.
Elizabeth Hoffman, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Stanley Vincent Jaskolski, term expired.
Phyllis C. Hunter, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of two years. (New Position)
Thomas Dyson Hurlburt, Jr., of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Middle District of Florida for the term of four years, vice Don R. Moreland, term expired.
Jeremy H. G. Ibrahim, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2005, vice Richard Thomas White, term expired.
Rickey Dale James, of Missouri, to be a Member of the Mississippi River Commission for a term of nine years. (Reappointment)
Walter H. Kansteiner, Assistant Secretary of State (African Affairs), to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2003, vice George Edward Moose, term expired.
Joseph Timothy Kelliher, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2007, vice Linda Key Breathitt, term expired.
Charlotte A. Lane, of West Virginia, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2009, vice Dennis M. Devaney.
Terry L. Maple, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2005, vice Townsend Wolfe, term expired.
Susanne T. Marshall, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board, vice Beth Susan Slavet.
R. Bruce Matthews, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2005, vice Joseph DiNunno, resigned.
Patrick Lloyd McCrory, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2005, vice Richard C. Hackett, term expired.
Michael McKay, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice Nancy Hardin Rogers, term expired.
Stephen McKnight, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2006, vice Isabel Carter Stewart.
Sidney McPhee, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Margaret P. Duckett, term expired.
Neil McPhie, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2009, vice Beth Susan Slavet, term expired.
James C. Miller, III, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for the term expiring December 8, 2010, vice Einar V. Dyhrkopp, term expired.
Cranston J. Mitchell, of Missouri, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of six years, vice Timothy Earl Jones, Sr.
Richard Narcia, of Arizona, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring August 25, 2006, vice Norma Gilbert Udall, term expired.
Roger Francisco Noriega, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2006, vice Harriett C. Babbitt, term expired.
Lawrence Okamura, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Doris B. Holleb, term expired.
Daniel Pearson, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring June 16, 2011, vice Lynn M. Bragg, term expired.
Christina Pharo, of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice James A. Tassone.
Rear Admiral Nicholas Augustus Prahl, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to be a Member of the Mississippi River Commission, under the provisions of Section 2 of an Act of Congress, approved 28 June 1879 (21 Stat. 37)(22 U.S.C. 642).
Elizabeth J. Pruet, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2004, vice David A. Ucko, term expired.
W. Scott Railton, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2007, vice Gary L. Visscher, term expired.
Douglas D. Randall, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Richard A. Tapia, term expired.
Edward F. Reilly, of Kansas, to be a Commissioner of the United States Parole Commission for a term of six years. (Reappointment)
Gerald Reynolds, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education, vice Norma V. Cantu, resigned.
Edwin Joseph Rigaud, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2007, vice Arthur Rosenblatt, term expired.
David B. Rivkin, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for the term expiring September 30, 2004, vice Laramie Faith McNamara.
Harry Robinson, Jr., of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2003, vice Alberta Sebolt George, term expired.
William A. Schambra, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring September 14, 2006, vice Carol W. Kinsley, term expired.
Dennis L. Schornack, of Michigan, to be Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Thomas L. Baldini.
Jeffrey Shane, of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Deputy Secretary of Transportation, vice Stephen D. Van Beek, resigned.
Linda M. Springer, of Pennsylvania, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Mark W. Everson.
Frank B. Strickland, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2004, vice John N. Erlenborn, term expired.
Stanley C. Suboleski, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2006, vice Marc Lincoln Marks, term expired.
Marguerite Sullivan, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Susan Ford Wiltshire, term expired.
Stephan Thernstrom, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Arthur I. Blaustein, term expired.
Michael E. Toner, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2007, vice Darryl R. Wold, term expired.
Bradley Udall, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2006, vice Matt James, term expired.
Jo Anne Vasquez, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2008, vice Mary K. Gaillard, term expired.
Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2003, vice Steven L. Zinter, term expired.
Raymond T. Wagner, Jr., of Missouri, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for the remainder of the term expiring September 14, 2004, vice George L. Farr.
Ellen L. Weintraub, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2007, vice Karl J. Sandstrom, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Donna N. Williams, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2006, vice Robert B. Rogers, term expired.
Dennis Arthur Williamson, of Florida, to be United States Marshal for the Northern District of Florida for the term of four years, vice James W. Lockley, term expired.
Richard Zenos Winget, of Nevada, to be United States Marshal for the District of Nevada, for the term of four years, vice Jose Gerardo Troncoso.