President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate ten individuals and his intention to appoint three individuals to serve as members of his administration:
The President intends to nominate Paul McHale of Pennsylvania, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense. Former Congressman McHale is currently Vice President of Tallman, Hudders and Sorrentino. While serving the people of Pennsylvania as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1993 until 1999, he served on the House Armed Services Committee and on the House Science Committee. Earlier in his career, he was elected to five consecutive terms in Pennsylvania's State House. He resigned in 1991, following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, and volunteered for active duty as an infantry officer with the Marine Corps. He served with the Marines in Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. Today he remains a member of the reserves with the rank of Colonel. Congressman McHale, a graduate of Lehigh University, earned his J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Christopher Ryan Henry of Virginia, to be Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Henry is currently the Corporate Vice President for Strategic Assessment and Development at Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC). Prior to joining SAIC, he was a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), where he led the Information-based Warfare initiative and served as Director of the "Conflict in the Digital Age Project." Mr. Henry graduated with merit from the U.S. Naval Academy and graduated top in his class from the National Defense University. He also has advanced degrees in Aeronautical Systems from the University of Florida and in Systems Management and Public Policy from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to nominate John W. Nicholson of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Memorial Affairs. Mr. Nicholson is a retired Army Officer. During his military career, he served in infantry commands and was a staff and faculty member at West Point Military Academy. In 1982, he was President Reagan's appointee to Strategic Arms negotiations in Geneva, Switzerland and then went on to be the Commanding General of the U.S. Army Training Support Command. Mr. Nicholson graduated from West Point, went on to earn a Masters in Public Administration from Shippensburg University, and was granted a Federal Executive Fellowship in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution.
(PART TIME NOMINATIONS AND APPOINTMENTS)
The President intends to nominate Paul Sarbanes of Maryland, to be United States Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Michael B. Enzi of Wyoming, to be United States Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate James Shinn of New Jersey, to be United States Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations. The President intends to nominate Ralph Martinez of Florida, to be United States Alternate Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia Costa of South Carolina, to be United States Alternate Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Claudia Puig of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President intends to appoint J.C. Watts Jr. of Oklahoma, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 30, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Michael Rogers of Washington, to be Member of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation, for the remainder of a two-year term expiring May 11, 2003.
The President intends to appoint John L. Marion of Texas, to be a Member of the Committee for the Preservation of the White House.
The President intends to nominate Alfred Plamann of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank (Low Income Cooperative Representative).