President George W. Bush

September 9, 2002
APEC Leaders' Statement on Fighting Terrorism and Promoting Growth

October 26, 2002
This initiative complements the transport security initiative President Bush secured at the G-8 Kananaskis Summit this June, as well as smart border programs President Bush has launched with Mexico and Canada and advances a vision of security that pushes the perimeter beyond the physical border. A number of APEC economies, encompassing most of the biggest ports in the region, have also agreed to participate in the U.S. Customs Container Security Initiative.
The Challenge: The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, illustrated how critical the international transport system is to our economic and national security. We must promote the efficient and reliable movement of people and goods across borders, while preventing the tools of transport from becoming tools of terrorism:
APEC Plan of Action: The U.S. proposed earlier this year that APEC address this challenge by advancing secure trade initiatives. Today APEC agreed and committed to a plan of action that will:
Container Security Initiative and other U.S. Efforts: The United States has been working bilaterally and multilaterally to keep the arteries of commerce clear while strengthening security surrounding the world's transportation infrastructure. We have comprehensive smart border initiatives underway with Mexico and Canada that use modern technology to enhance security and expedite legitimate cross-border travel and commerce. The U.S. Customs Service is, through its Container Security Initiative (CSI), partnering with key ports to introduce pre-screening and risk analysis of cargo containers based on advance information. Fifty percent of containerized cargo shipments to the United States originate in 10 key megaports, 6 of which are in APEC. Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Canada, and most recently China have agreed to participate in CSI, and we are seeking to expand CSI to a number of other Asia-Pacific countries.