[Released January 12, 1930. Dated December 30, 1929]
My dear Dr. Thompson:
The solicitude and philosophic ripeness of your letter of December 28th requires more than reciprocation of kindly holiday greetings. Possibly if I had either the time or the inclination to worry over the evils which lurk around the White House it might decrease my faith in human goodness, but, fortunately, the insistent need for determination of definite action in public matters inhibits such contemplations.
The human flood which flows through the White House shows all the dark colorings and the flotsam that you mention. But it is brightened more than you think by many who, regardless of party, genuinely wish to help the President to succeed in his task. The sons of evil have at least collateral descendants in every generation. Of course, it is true that malice is ofttimes the politician's key to newspaper headlines, and there will always be partisans desirous that the President should fail, even if their state gems injure the country or whose daily toil is to mix mud pies. But if these blots were other than exceptions, this nation would not have swept to a mightier and mightier destiny every year since the Independence.
You well know of the wearing of hair shirts in the Middle Ages by way of reminder of sin and trouble. Somewhere lately I said that every man has a few mental hair shirts and that Presidents differ only by their larger wardrobe--for certain individuals, newspapers, associations and institutions officiate as haberdashers in this regard, with a high generosity which guarantees both humility and urbanity. As against all this the President has for a few short years the opportunity to speed the orderly march of a glorious people. And the inspiration of that moving host is compensation that comes in larger measure to him than to any other man.
You aptly penetrate the vital question of public action--the discovery and promulgation of truth. No real believer in democracy questions the sureness of public judgment--if the public is given the truth, but there is a time element in the triumph of truth. When we look back over history we see the periods of either moral, social, economic, or political stagnation while the truth was en route and some variety of demagoguery occupied the scene. We can and must, however, greatly increase the production of truth and we must know the truth before the grave interest of 120,000,000 people is involved in government policies. We can sometimes speed up production before the demagogue awakes to his opportunities. Facts are bad for his digestion and the truth makes misrepresentation uncomfortable. And the truth, as you say, is hard to discover; it must be distilled through the common judgment of skilled men and women from accurately and patiently collected facts and knowledge of forces before the extraction of the essence of wisdom. The materials themselves are also hard to come by; it takes time and patience, especially as our many inventions have forever banished the simple life. In the meantime, a vast clamor of half-truths and untruths and injured facts will always fill the air and intoxicate people's emotions. The President himself cannot pretend to know or to have the time for rigid investigation. But the fine minds of our citizens are available and can be utilized for the search.
So you will know why when you hear of more and more temporary committees, commissions, conferences, researches--that they are not for executive action (for which they are anathema) but are one of the sound processes for the search, production, and distribution of truth. And they are more. They spread cooperation with government among our best citizens, not only in finding truth but also they aid to spread it and to get action upon it. Our great American experiment has demonstrated that the people will of their own initiative take care of progress if the government can remove abuse and help put the signs on the road, stimulation to all of which is part of the job of Presidents. Of Lincoln's great formula the most important one-third is "government by the people", and they will govern themselves outside of the government when they see the light. It is from too much emphasis on "government of the people" that we get the fundamental confusion that government, since it can correct much abuse, can also create righteousness.
And now all this was not intended to bore your holidays, but just to indicate to you that my resolutions for the new year include a continued effort to keep pure the wells of wisdom, and to reassure you that I have faith that the people want the truth determined even if it takes time and patience.

Yours faithfully,
HERBERT HOOVER
[Dr. W. O. Thompson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio]