Since 1962 -- ever since federal workers have been allowed to unionize -- the President has retained the government-wide authority to exempt federal agencies from collective bargaining requirements if the agency's primary function revolves around national security work. In 1978, under President Jimmy Carter, this provision was codified into the law dealing with federal employees:
5 USC 7103 (b) (1)
The President may issue an executive order excluding any agency or subdivision thereof from coverage under this chapter if the President determines that --
(A) the agency or subdivision has a primary function of intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work, and,
(B) the provisions of this chapter cannot be applied to that agency or subdivision in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.
This provision has been employed by every President of the United States with care and deliberation. Dozens of federal agencies and subdivisions representing tens of thousands of exemplary federal employees have been exempted from collective bargaining requirements, including:
Both the original Lieberman bill and the Breaux-Nelson-Chafee proposal significantly weaken the President's existing national security authority as it would apply to the proposed Department of Homeland Security -- the very department charged with helping to ensure the security of the American people. Simply put, the President would have 
 national security authority in the Department of Homeland Security than he has in every other department and agency.
Even under the so-called Breaux-Nelson-Chafee "compromise language" proposed in the Senate, the President of the United States could not exercise his long-standing authority unless he can first satisfy two new, burdensome standards 
.
 
This creates the irony that if these agencies were left in their existing departments and not moved to the proposed Department of Homeland Security, the President would continue to exercise his complete national security authority. However, if they are moved, with the same employees and same mission to the Department of Homeland Security, the President would have less national security authority over the employees.
 
It is not clear that 
 agency of the Department -- or the entire government for that matter -- would be able to demonstrate that a majority of its employees had this narrowly defined task as their primary duty. And again, the irony is this test would not apply if the agency was left in its existing department.
 
5 USC 7103 (b) (1)
The President may issue an executive order excluding any agency or subdivision thereof from coverage under this chapter if the President determines that --
(A) the agency or subdivision has a primary function of intelligence, counterintelligence, investigative, or national security work, and,
(B) the provisions of this chapter cannot be applied to that agency or subdivision in a manner consistent with national security requirements and considerations.
Limitation on Exclusionary Authority
IN GENERAL -- No agency or subdivision of agency which is transferred to the Department pursuant to this Act shall be excluded from the coverage of Chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, as a result of any order issued under section 7103(b)(1) if such title 5 after June 18, 2002, unless --
(A) the mission and responsibilities of such unit (or subdivision) materially change; and
(B) a majority of the employees within such unit (or subdivision) have as their primary duty intelligence, counterintelligence, or investigative work directly related to terrorism investigations.