The NEXUS alternative inspection program allows pre-screened, low-risk travelers to be processed with little or no delay by United States and Canadian border officials. Approved applicants are issued photo-identification and a proximity card. Participants cross the border in a dedicated lane, where they present their membership identification and proximity card, and make a declaration. They are then released, unless chosen for a selective or random secondary referral.
The U.S. Customs Service (USCS), the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (USINS), the Canada Customs and Revenue Agency (CCRA), and Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) are cooperating in this venture to simplify border crossings for pre-approved, low-risk travelers.
Individuals may qualify to participate in NEXUS if they are a citizen or permanent resident of the United States or Canada, or are a non-permanent resident who can demonstrate a need to use the NEXUS lanes. However, individuals may not qualify if they:
 
To participate, an individual's application must be approved by both the United States and Canada. If an individual does not meet the requirements of the program, their application will be denied.
Individuals approved to participate in NEXUS receive an identification card to use at the border that will allows them to:
 
Because NEXUS is a harmonized program, applicants complete a single application form.
NEXUS also allows United States and Canadian Customs and Immigration officials to concentrate their efforts on potentially higher-risk travelers and goods, which helps to ensure security and integrity at our borders.
NEXUS will be operational at both the Detroit/Windsor and Buffalo/Fort Erie bridges beginning in January of 2003 and at the Detroit/Windsor tunnel by March 2003.
NEXUS will be expanded to the Queenston/Lewiston Bridge, the Rainbow Bridge and potentially the Whirlpool Bridge by Spring 2003. NEXUS will also be expanded to all other high-volume crossings between the two countries by the end of 2003.
NEXUS enrollment centers will open in Detroit, Michigan on September 9, 2002 and in Buffalo, New York in October 2002.