President Bush Today Announced His Intention to Appoint 31 Individuals and His Intention to Designate One Individual to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint 31 individuals and his intention to designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for six-year terms expiring September 1, 2008:
Melvyn J. Estrin of Maryland

George Farias of New York

Roy Goodman of New York

Alma Johnson Powell of Alabama

Catherine Reynolds of Virginia

Beatrice Welters of New York
President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Mary Mochary of Virginia, and upon appointment designate Chairman

Patricia H. Gerber of Illinois

Chi Ming Lee of California

William Hideo Marumoto of California

Elizabeth McNamee of Colorado

Velma Morrison of Idaho

Mary H. Perdue of Maryland

Harriet Rotter of Michigan

Alfred Raymond Tye of Massachusetts
President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Rural Telephone Bank:
Clay Davis of Kentucky to be a General Public representative

Gilbert Gonzalez, Jr. of Texas to be a Department of Agriculture representative

James House of Maryland to be a Department of Agriculture representative

Luis Luna of Maryland to be a Department of Agriculture representative

Roberto Salazar of New Mexico to be a Department of Agriculture representative

Christine Toretti of Pennsylvania to be a General Public representative
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust:
Luke R. Corbett of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2005

Patricia Eaton of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring February 18, 2005

Donald F. Ferrell of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2006

Gloria Griffin of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2005

Robert M. Johnson of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2006

Linda P. Lambert of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2004

Gary B. Marrs of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2006

Richard E. Williams of Oklahoma, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring September 14, 2006
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Advisory Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders:
Amanullah Khan of Texas

Shinq-Chern Liou of California
The President intends to designate Marvin Lee Watts of New Mexico, to be United States Commissioner of the Pecos River Commission.