The Kananaskis Summit is focused on three key objectives: fighting terrorism, promoting global economic growth, and strengthening partnerships to support development, especially in Africa. Through the leadership of President Bush and other Leaders, the G-8 has agreed to take action on these vital objectives.
 President Bush secured today G-8 agreement on a major new U.S.-proposed Transport Security Initiative designed to enhance our security while growing our economies. The initiative will lead to more effective screening of people and cargo before transit; increased security for ships, airplanes, and trucks while in transit; and enhanced security at airports and seaports. By deploying modern technology, the initiative will push the security perimeter beyond physical borders, strengthen security, and expedite the movement of legitimate cargo and travelers.
 G-8 Leaders agreed that in 2006, Russia will assume the Presidency and host the annual G-8 Summit meeting. The decision reflects Russia's economic and democratic transition in recent years under President Putin.
 G-8 Leaders agreed to fully fund their share of the projected shortfall in the existing HIPC debt cancellation program.
 President Bush and the other G-8 Leaders agreed today to press forward with an aggressive global agenda for boosting educational opportunity and achievement. The G-8 Education Task Force Report reflects many of President Bush's core education principles, including: enhanced accountability through monitoring and test-based assessment; local control of education initiatives; and empowering parents through transparent budgets down to the local level. President Bush believes that learning and literacy are the foundations of democracy and development. That is why he has developed a dynamic program for expanding educational opportunity throughout the world, which includes doubling funding for the Africa Education Initiative to $200 million over the next five years, bringing total U.S. spending on basic education in Africa to $630 million over 5 years.