The President of the German Reich, the President of the United States of America, his Majesty the King of the Belgians, the President of the French Republic, his Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland, the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Emperor of India, his Majesty the King of Italy, his Majesty the Emperor of Japan, the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Czecho-Slovak Republic,

Deeply sensible of their solemn duty to promote the welfare of mankind;

Persuaded that the time has come when a frank renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy should be made to the end that the peaceful and friendly relations now existing between their peoples may be perpetuated;

Convinced that all changes in their relations with one another should be sought only by pacific means and be the result of a peaceful and orderly process; and that any signatory power which shall hereafter seek to promote its national interests by resort to war should be denied the benefits furnished by this treaty;

Hopeful that, encouraged by their example, all the other nations of the world will join in this humane endeavor and by adhering to the present treaty as soon as it comes into force bring their peoples within the scope of its beneficent provisions, thus uniting the civilized nations of the world in a common renunciation of war as an instrument of their national policy;

Have decided to conclude a treaty, and for that purpose have appointed as their respective plenipotentiaries:

The President of the German Reich, Dr. Gustav Stresemann, Minister for Foreign Affairs;

The President of the United States of America, the Hon. Frank B. Kellogg, Secretary of State;

His Majesty the King of the Belgians, M. Paul Hymans, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister of State;

The President of the French Republic, M. Aristide Briand, Minister for Foreign Affairs;

His Majesty the King of Great Britain, Ireland and the British Dominions Beyond the Seas, Emperor of India;

For Great Britain and Northern Ireland and all parts of the British Empire which are not separate members of the League of Nations, the Right Hon. Lord Cushendun, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Acting Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs;

For the Dominion of Canada, the Right Hon. William Lyon Mackenzie-King, Prime Minister and Minister for External Affairs;

For the Commonwealth of Australia, the Hon. Alexander John McLachlen, member of the Executive Federal Council;

For the Dominion of New Zealand, the Hon. Sir Christopher James Parr, High Commissioner for New Zealand in Great Britain;

For the Union of South Africa, the Hon. Jacobus Steppanus Smit, High Commissioner for the Union of South Africa in Great Britain;

For the Irish Free State, Mr. William Thomas Cosgrave, President of the Executive Council of the Irish Free State;

For India, the Right Hon. Lord Cushendun, Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Acting Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs;

His Majesty, the King of Italy, Count Gaetano Manzoni, His Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenitotentiary at Paris;

His Majesty, the Emperor of Japan, Count Uchida, member of the Privy Council;

The President of the Republic of Poland, Mr. A. Zales, Minister for Foreign Affairs;

The President of the Czechoslovak Republic, Dr. Eduard Benes, Minister for Foreign Affairs.

Who, having communicated to one another their full powers found in good and due form, have agreed upon the following articles:


ARTICLE I.

The High Contracting Parties solemnly declare in the names of their respective peoples that they condemn recourse to war for the solution of international controversies and renounce it as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another.


ARTICLE II.

The High Contracting Parties agree that the settlement or solution of all disputes or conflicts of whatever nature or of whatever origin they may be, which may arise among them, shall never be sought except by pacific means.


ARTICLE III.

The present treaty shall be ratified by the High Contracting Parties named in the preamble in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, and shall take effect as between them as soon as all their several instruments of ratification shall have been deposited at Washington.

This treaty shall, when it has come into effect as prescribed in the preceding paragraph, remain open as long as may be necessary for adherence by all the other powers of the world. Every instrument evidencing the adherence of a power shall be deposited at Washington and the treaty shall immediately upon such deposit become effective as between the power thus adhering and the other parties hereto.

It shall be the duty of the Government of the United States of America to furnish each government named in the preamble and every government subsequently adhering to this treaty with a certified copy of the treaty and of every instrument of ratification or adherence. It shall also be the duty of the Government of the United States of America telegraphically to notify such governments immediately upon the deposit with it of each instrument of ratification or adherence.

In faith whereof the plenipotentiaries have signed this treaty in the French and English languages, both texts having equal force, and hereunto affixed their seals.

Done at Paris the twenty-seventh day of August in the year one thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.