President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Karan K. Bhatia of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation for Aviation and International Affairs. Mr. Bhatia currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Industry and Security, a politically appointed Senior Executive Service position. Mr. Bhatia also serves as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University Law Center where he co-teaches a course on international civil litigation to J.D. and L.L.M. candidates. Previously, Mr. Bhatia served as Chief Counsel for Export Administration, a politically appointed Senior Executive Service position in the Commerce Department's Office of General Counsel. Earlier in his career, Mr. Bhatia worked as an equity partner for Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, where he served as a member of the firm's Regulatory and Corporate Practice Groups, and was administrative Partner for the firm's International Aviation, Defense & Aerospace sub-group. Mr. Bhatia earned his A.B. from Princeton University and his M.Sc. at the London School of Economics. He received his J.D. from Columbia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia R. Church of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs. Ms. Church served as Deputy Press Secretary for the U.S. State Department from August 2001 until February 2003. Prior to this position, Ms. Church worked as a freelance national news correspondent at NBC Television Stations, Washington News Bureau and as a media consultant at Capitol Communications, Inc. Ms. Church served as a news anchor and reporter for WVEC-TV (ABC) from 1984 until 1996 and for Cable 3 News in East Providence, Rhode Island from 1983 until 1984. Ms. Church earned her B.A. from University of Massachusetts ? Amherst.
The President intends to nominate Domingo S. Herraiz of Ohio, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance. Mr. Herraiz currently serves as the Governor's Cabinet Director of the state criminal justice planning agency at the Ohio Office of Criminal Justice Services. Prior to this position, Mr. Herraiz worked at the Ohio Crime Prevention Association where he served as Program Development Director from 1985 until 1986 and as Executive Director from 1986 until 2000. Mr. Herraiz earned his B.A. at Ohio University, where he is currently working towards his M.A. in Political Science.
The President intends to nominate Leslie Silverman of Virginia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for a five-year term expiring July 1, 2008. Ms. Silverman was appointed by President George W. Bush to her current position as Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in March of 2002. Prior to her appointment, Ms. Silverman served as Labor Counsel to the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions from February 1997 until March 2002. From September 1990 until February 1997 Ms. Silverman worked for Keller and Heckman as a Litigation/Employment Associate. Earlier in her career, Ms. Silverman served as Law Clerk in the Office of United States Attorney Jay Stephens from January until April 1990 and as a Summer Associate & Law Clerk at Keller and Heckman from May until December 1989. Ms. Silverman received her B.S. from the University of Vermont and her J.D. from Washington College of Law at The American University. She earned her Master of Laws at the Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Mauricio J. Tamargo of Florida, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, for a three-year term expiring September 30, 2006. Mr. Tamargo was nominated to his current position as Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States by President George W. Bush in July 2001 and was confirmed by the Senate on January 25, 2002. Before assuming the Chairmanship, Mr. Tamargo was the Staff Director for the International Operations and Human Rights Subcommittee on the House International Relations Committee and Chief of Staff and Legal Counsel to Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. Previously, Mr. Tamargo served as Staff Director and Counsel for the Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade, preceded by being Staff Director and Counsel to the Subcommittee on Africa. Earlier in his career, Mr. Tamargo served as Administrative Assistant to then-Florida State Representative Ros-Lehtinen, and later served as her Legislative Director following her election to Congress. Mr. Tamargo received his B.A. from the University of Miami and his J.D. from Cumberland School of Law at Samford University.