Today President Bush signed the first ever homeland security appropriations bill at the Department of Homeland Security, continuing his commitment to protect the American people. Overall, the Department's FY 2004 budget authority totals $37.6 billion: $30.4 billion provided by the Congress plus an additional $7.2 billion in fees.
Below are some highlights:
   ·           $150 million to purchase explosives detection systems.
   ·           $250 million to install these systems in airports.
   ·           $30 million to enable TSA to improve its oversight of the 
, using a risk-weighted freight screening system that will identify pieces of cargo that require closer scrutiny before being loaded on passenger aircraft. Funds will also enable TSA to 
 to perform more in-depth audits of shipper compliance with the known shipper requirement.
   ·           $55 million to be used by TSA's Research and Development to pursue a variety of technological solutions that would allow for the most 
 of cargo carried on passenger aircraft.
   ·           C-TPAT will add nearly 160 more supply chain security experts to provide training and technical assistance to those partners, who will benefit from the increased level of trust by experiencing fewer port inspections and shorter wait times.
   ·           $1.7 billion for formula-based grants of which 80% of the funds made available to the state shall be made available to the localities within 60 days of the state receiving the funds.
   ·           $750 million for Firefighters Assistance Grants.
   ·           $725 million for discretionary grants for high-threat, high-density urban areas, of which 80% of the funds made available to the state shall be made available to the localities within 60 days of the state receiving the funds.  In administering these grants, the Congress has directed the Secretary to take into consideration credible threat, presence of critical infrastructure, population, vulnerability, cooperation of multiple jurisdictions in preparing domestic preparedness plans, and the identified needs of public agencies when determining the allocation of these funds.
   ·           $500 million for law enforcement terrorism prevention grants, of which 80% of the funds made available to the state, shall be made available to the localities within 60 days of the state receiving the fund.  This is a new appropriation not funded in FY 2003.
   ·           $40 million for Citizen Corps grants.
   ·           $1.8 billion for the 
, which provides federal assistance to supplement state and local governments' disaster response, recovery, preparedness and mitigation efforts.  With this funding, DHS provides a significant portion of the total Federal response to victims in Presidentially-declared major disasters and emergencies. 
   ·           $484 million for Public Health Programs, specifically $400 million for the 
, $50 million for the 
 and $34 million for the 
.  This activity provides for the countermeasures needed to treat diseases caused by critical chemical and biological agents, as well as medical and support personnel.   This FY 2004 funding is a $184 million increase over the $300 million funded in 2003.
   ·           $200 million for the 
 activities. This program uses state-of-the-art technology to cost-effectively develop accurate and complete flood hazard information nationwide.  This capability will enable state and local planners to better identify high risk areas susceptible to flood damage.  Using Hurricane Isabel as an example, FEMA, along with state and local land planning agencies, could have used this technology to better help identify areas in Virginia and North Carolina that are at risk for flood damage.  This information is then used to develop a mitigation strategy where the Chesapeake Watershed is managed and improvements to coastal lands and structures are made that would have minimized flood damage.  The flood map modernization program works in tandem with FEMA's National Flood Insurance Fund, and together helps Americans limit losses in consequence of flood damage every year.  The FY 2004 budget allocates $51 million more in funds over the $149 million funded in 2003.
   ·           $180 million for 
, of which no more than 3% may be used for administrative expenses.  These grants help reduce the risk of future damage in hazard areas and ultimately reduce the need for disaster assistance.  This is an increase of $15 million over the $165 million funded in 2003.
   ·           $153 million for the 
, of which no more than 3.5% may be used for administrative expenses.  This program is designed to help address the problems of hunger and homelessness associated with disasters.
   ·           $60 million for 
, of which no more than 3% may be used for administrative expenses.  This provides funding for the operations, equipment and training of search and rescue teams.
   ·           $5.6 billion in advance appropriations for the years FY 2004 to FY 2013 for 
, of which $890 million is available in FY 2004.  Under this program, DHS will work with the Department of Health and Human Services to accelerate the development and procurement of advanced vaccines and treatments to protect Americans against biological, chemical, and radiological threats.
   ·           $668 million is allocated to the 
, the Coast Guard's multi-year recapitalization that will replace or modernize the Coast Guard's large ships, aircraft, sensors, command and control systems, and logistics system.  Deepwater funding in FY-04 including $143 million for aircraft, which will include the purchase of a CASA 235 maritime patrol aircraft; $303 million to be used in part for construction of the first 420-foot National Security Cutter; $101 million for use in part for continued development of  a network-centric command and control system that will provide a common operating picture; $24.7 million for a common logistics information system; and continued development of the vertical unmanned aerial vehicle that will deploy from IDS cutters.
   ·           The FY 2004 budget provides for 7 additional deployable 
 for a total of 13 teams.  Each team includes 90 people and 6 boats, which provide a robust security posture in ports to protect vulnerable assets such as bridges, nuclear power plants, passenger vessels, and vessels carrying hazardous cargo.
   ·           An additional $26.3 million and 
 increase the Coast Guard's search and rescue capability, and the safety of its people as they perform rescues during storms, floods, and darkness.
   ·           $88 million for the 
 to build a facility that will be the DHS "hub and spoke" system that will further the mission of increasing understanding of potential bioterrorism pathogens and improving protection of human health and agriculture against biological terrorism.
   ·           $75 million for the 
, to fund counterterrorism projects selected through last summer's and this fall's Technical Support Working Group solicitations, and to support the rapid adaptation of commercial technologies  through the Homeland Security Advanced Research Projects Agency (HSARPA) for use by DHS and state and local first responders.
   ·           $70 million for the Homeland Security University Programs.  This program will include the 
 program that will provide scholarships to undergraduate and graduate students pursuing scientific studies in homeland security.  In addition, it will include the 
 program that will establish a coordinated, university-based system to enhance the Nation's homeland security.  The HS-Centers will be a critical component of our nation's defenses by providing a dedicated capability that will enhance our ability to anticipate, prevent, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks.
   ·           $66.5 million for 
, of which $60 million is provided for the research, development, testing and evaluation of an anti-missile device for commercial aircraft.
   ·           $39 million for developing a database of homeland-security related 
 from private sector standards development organizations, for certification and accreditation models for products and services, for testing and evaluation protocols for commercial radiation detectors, and for developing standard chemical methods of analysis of high explosives, chemical warfare agents, and toxic industrial chemicals.
   ·           $38 million will be used to continue the deployment of the 
 also known as BioWatch.  Through the BioWatch biosurveillance program, DHS, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Centers for Disease Control's Laboratory Response Network provide early detection of bio-threats.  These partners are working with state and local officials to implement an effective consequence management plan that incorporates the BioWatch system.   In addition, these funds are also being applied to develop the next generation of bio-pathogen monitoring sensors.
   ·           $127 million will be used to develop sensors and other countermeasures to prevent the illicit transport and use of radiological and nuclear materials within the United States.
   ·                                                                                 
   ·           $20 million for the 
, which provides 24 hour a day, 7 day a week live watch for command, control, and monitoring capabilities of the Department.
   ·           $28 million for 
, which provides strategic assessments of our nation's critical infrastructures and key assets, including 168,000 public water systems; 300,000 oil and natural gas production facilities; 4,000 offshore platforms; 278,000 miles of natural gas pipelines; 361 seaports; 104 nuclear power plants; 80,000 dams; and tens of thousands of other potentially critical targets.
   ·           $52.3 million for 
, which will develop a comprehensive process to guide intelligence collection, assessment, evaluation, and prioritization; and ensure the required privacy protection related to the use, collection, and disclosure of private sector and personal information.
   ·           $84.2 million for 
, which will develop and maintain a complete, accurate, and prioritized mapping of the nation's critical infrastructures and key assets including agriculture, food, water, public health, emergency services, government, defense industrial base, information and telecommunications, energy, transportation, banking and finance, chemical and hazardous materials, postal and shipping, and monuments and icons.
   ·           $345 million for 
, which includes work with state and local governments, and industry, to identify and prioritize protective measures; and to develop objective protection standards and performance measures.
   ·           $141 million for the 
, which includes the emergency notification system, back-up dial-tone, government emergency telecommunications network, and wireless priority service.
   ·           The CIS budget includes $1.8 billion, a 9% increase ($143 million) over FY 2003 to support further improvements in application processing as well as the processing of projected volume.  The $1.8 billion is comprised of $236 million in appropriated funding and approximately $1.6 billion in projected fee revenues.
   ·           The CIS budget supports the President's five-year, $500 million initiative, begun in FY 2002, to attain a universal six-month processing time standard for all immigration benefit applications, and provide quality service to all legal immigrants, citizens, businesses and other CIS customers.  The third $100 million installment of the President's five-year plan consists of $20 million from revenues generated by the Premium Processing Service fee and $80 million in appropriated funds.