President George W. Bush announced his intention to nominate seven individuals, appoint four and designate two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate William J. Hudson, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service since 1972, Mr. Hudson currently serves at the Department of State as the Executive Director of the Bureaus of Near Eastern Affairs and South Asian Affairs. His previous overseas assignments include service as Minister-Counselor for Administrative Affairs in Paris, Administrative Officer in Belgrade, Deputy Chief of Mission in Lome, General Services Officer in Tehran and Administrative Officer in Lubumbashi. He received his bachelor's degree and his master's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles.
The President intends to nominate Hector Elias Morales, of Texas, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank. Mr. Morales currently serves as Founder and Principal of Dreadnought Ventures. Prior to this position he served as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Development for the Viamericas Corporation. Earlier in his career Mr. Morales served as an Independent Consultant in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He earned his bachelor's degree from Columbia College and his J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Adam Rosen, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation. Currently, Mr. Rosen serves as a Senior Partner with Kirkland & Ellis, LLP, where he previously served as a Partner and as an Associate. He also currently serves as an Adjunct Professor of Law for the Georgetown University Law Center. Mr. Rosen earned his bachelor's degree from Northwestern University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Susan Krouner Sclafani, of the District of Columbia, to be Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education and designate her as Acting Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education for the Department of Education. She currently serves within the same department as Counselor to the Secretary of Education. Previously, Ms. Sclafani served in numerous positions at the Houston Independent School District including Chief of Staff for Educational Services, Associate Superintendent for District Administration, and Executive Director of Curriculum. She earned her bachelor's degree from Vassar College, her first master's degree from the University of Chicago, her second master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Michael Walter Wynne, of Florida, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics at the Department of Defense, where he currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. Previously, Mr. Wynne has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ixata, and as Chairman of Extended Reach Logistics. He earned his bachelor's degree from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, his first master's degree from the Air Force Institute of Technology, and his second master's degree from the University of Colorado.
The President intends to designate Michele Marie Leonhart, of California, to be Acting Deputy Administrator of Drug Enforcement.
The President intends to nominate Bradley Deck Belt, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board, for the remainder of a six-year time expiring September 30, 2008.
The President intends to nominate James McBride, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 3, 2008.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board:
The President intends to appoint Robert H. Bruininks, of Minnesota, for a three-year term beginning September 23, 2003.
The President intends to appoint John S. Butler, of Texas, for a three-year term beginning September 23, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Shirley M. Green, of Texas, for a three-year term beginning September 23, 2003.
The President intends to appoint Thomas T. Lyons, of Massachusetts, for a three-year term beginning September 23, 2003.