The United States and Afghanistan share a common vision for an Afghanistan that is prosperous, democratic, self-governing, and respectful of human rights. The determination of the Afghan people and the on-going commitment of the Coalition Partners have created an environment of stability and success. The U.S. has contributed over $900 million in assistance to the people of Afghanistan since 2001.

Afghanistan has improved its health care system and with a U.S commitment of $133 million planned for a three-year program, access to health services will be expanded. Successes since April 2002 include:

Afghanistan has made great strides in revitalizing the education system. Recent successes include:
The U.S. is initiating a $60 million program to build or repair 1,000 schools, train 30,000 teachers, offer accelerated learning programs to 60,000 students and print 15 million textbooks for 2.9 million students, 30 percent of whom are girls.

The Afghan government and international organizations are assisting the returning refugees. 2.5 million Afghans have returned home, the largest refugee repatriation in the world in the last 30 years.
The U.S. has helped with a total of $185.5 million since the beginning of the Afghan crisis in September 2001.

Rehabilitating agriculture is key to the growth of the Afghan economy and the local farmers are working to re-establish production. The U.S. is helping by providing the following:
There have been successes in agriculture, such as, an increase of food production, an 82percent increase in wheat yields through fertilizer and improved wheat seed, the development of a crushing facility to produce and market peanut and other oils from the high-value crops, and high-value crop diversification for approximately 18,000 farmers

A priority for revitalizing the economy of Afghanistan is to rebuild Afghans main transportation artery the Kabul-Kandahar-Herat road

Afghanistan is providing renewed opportunities for women. With the support of the U.S., women are receiving education, skills and tools they need to obtain jobs and integrate into the political and public life. Programs include:

The Afghan government plans to create an army of 70,000 to defend their country. As of April 5, 2003 the ninth battalion of 716 Army recruits began basic training.
The new recruits will be trained by fellow Afghan non-commissioned officers, instead of by Coalition Partners.