 Seagate Convention Center
 Toledo, Ohio

 5:14 P.M. EDT

 MR. McCLELLAN: Okay, I know you all were looking for me, so I'll go straight to your questions.

 Q: Do you have a reaction to the Osama bin Laden tape?

 MR. McCLELLAN: First of all, our intelligence community has said that they believe it is authentic and that it was taped recently. The intelligence community continues to analyze the tape. If there is actionable intelligence, we will act on it.

 Q: What does that mean?

 MR. McCLELLAN: Well, that they continue to analyze the tape. If there is any actionable intelligence that they determine from the tape, then they will act on it.

 We are doing everything we can to prevail in the war on terrorism and defeat the ideology of hatred that bin Laden articulates in this tape.

 Q: When you refer to "actionable intelligence," are you talking about clues that might be imbedded on the tape; is that what you're saying?

 MR. McCLELLAN: Well, I said if there is any. That's why I said our intelligence community continues to analyze the tape. If there is any actionable intelligence then we will act on it.

 Q: Threat level? Are you looking at raising the threat level before the election?

 MR. McCLELLAN: That is something that we analyze all the time. We are on a heightened state of awareness already, and there is no change in it at this time. But it's something that we analyze all the time.

 Q: Does the President take this as an effort to influence this election?

 MR. McCLELLAN: I'll leave the political analysis to others.

 Q: Does he see this, though, as some -- as Osama speaking directly to him, or trying to insert him in his --

 MR. McCLELLAN: You're asking me to get into the political analysis and as I said, I think I'll leave that to others.

 Q: Well, stepping back as a matter -- not just about the President, but to try to influence the American political process --

 MR. McCLELLAN: We look at it as that we will continue to act -- the law enforcement community, the intelligence community, our homeland security officials -- to make sure we are doing everything we can to disrupt and prevent attacks from happening. Our military will remain on the offensive to prevail in the war on terrorism, and that's where our focus is.

 Q: Was the President -- when was the President notified of the tape? What was his immediate reaction?

 MR. McCLELLAN: Late this morning. Dr. Rice was in touch with officials back at the White House, including Fran Townsend, our Homeland Security Advisor. And she informed the President shortly after that, aboard the plane.

 Q: Flying from where --

 MR. McCLELLAN: I'll check the schedule.

 Q: First flight?

 MR. McCLELLAN: It was late this morning, probably shortly before noon.

 Q: Did the President have a reaction --

 MR. McCLELLAN: Well, I'm giving you the --

 Q: -- to Dr. Rice?

 MR. McCLELLAN: Oh, I'm sorry.

 Q: Did the President have a reaction when he heard about the tape?

 MR. McCLELLAN: The reaction is what I gave you, from the White House.

 Q: So you guys are taking this seriously, obviously -- you're not blowing it off, or anything? And for the political part of it, you don't want to comment on --

 MR. McCLELLAN: I'll leave that to others. I'll talk about what we're doing. All Americans are united in our strength and resolve to defeat the ideology of hatred that bin Laden articulates in this tape.

 Q: Are we going to hear him talk about this, or address this tape at all?

 MR. McCLELLAN: Well, I'm speaking for him now, giving you the White House reaction. Obviously, you will be there to cover him. At this point, you have comment from me.

 Anything else?

 Q: Can you recap what the initial reaction was?

 MR. McCLELLAN: It will be in the transcript. Anything else?

 Q: That's it. Thank you.

 END 5:18 P.M. EDT 