 Rising health care costs impose a burden on families and small businesses and put coverage out of the reach of many Americans. The President's plan will help reduce the rising cost of health care; provide new and affordable health coverage options for all Americans; and provide not just a government program, but a path to greater opportunity, more freedom, and more control over your own health care and your own future.
The President has already taken important steps to make health care more affordable and accessible:
The year before President Bush took office, some 3.3 million low-income children were enrolled in SCHIP. By 2003, that number had risen to 5.8 million, a 75 percent increase. Over that same period, by working cooperatively with state governors, the Department of Health and Human Services increased the number of low-income adults and children on Medicaid by 6.8 million.
Despite these efforts, millions of children who are eligible for SCHIP or Medicaid coverage are not yet enrolled. Billions in Federal dollars available to the states to insure these children remain unspent because the children haven't been signed up.
President Bush signed legislation creating Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which are a new, affordable option in health care coverage. HSAs are tax-free savings accounts that people can set up when they purchase a low-premium, high-deductible policy to cover major medical expenses. Money from the HSA can be used to pay for routine medical expenses or saved for future health needs, while the major medical policy helps cover big expenses, like hospital stays.
The President has proposed allowing individuals who set up HSAs to deduct from their income taxes the premiums they pay for their major medical polices, thus reducing the net cost of those policies. Individuals who set up HSAs can save substantial sums on their health insurance and their taxes. Moreover, HSAs give Americans more control over their health care spending. If you own an HSA, you can go to the doctor of your choice and keep the account even if you change jobs.
To extend the benefits of HSAs to low-income families and individuals, the President proposes giving low-income families a $1,000 contribution made directly to their HSA, along with a $2,000 refundable tax credit to help purchase a policy to cover major medical expenses.
More than half of the uninsured are small business employees and their families. Small businesses face obstacles in providing health benefits including high costs, complicated regulations, and a lack of bargaining power with insurance companies. The President's plan helps them in several ways. President Bush has supported Association Health Plans (AHPs), which allow small businesses to band together to negotiate lower-priced health insurance for their employees. He also is proposing a tax credit to encourage small businesses and their employees to set up HSAs. President Bush proposes to:
High health care costs are the underlying reason why many Americans are uninsured. President Bush has proposed Medical Liability Reform and new investments in Health Information Technology to help lower costs. In addition, he is proposing the following new initiatives:
 Last year, President Bush signed legislation creating tax-free Health Savings Accounts - a new option in coverage which will give millions of Americans access to affordable health care. These accounts can reduce health insurance premiums for families by thousands of dollars annually.

To extend the benefits of HSAs to low-income families and individuals, the President proposes giving low-income families a $1,000 contribution made directly to their HSA, along with a $2,000 refundable tax credit to help purchase a policy to cover major medical expenses.
 More than half of the uninsured are small business employees and their families. Small businesses face obstacles in providing health benefits including high costs, complicated regulations, and a lack of bargaining power with insurance companies. The President's plan helps them make contributions to their employees' HSAs in a cost-effective way.
Most people get their health insurance through their jobs. Yet more than half of the uninsured are small-business employees and their families.
To ensure that employees of small businesses also get coverage, the President wants small businesses to have the same bargaining power as large companies. He has called on Congress to pass Association Health Plans (AHPs), which allow small businesses to band together through trade and professional associations to purchase more affordable health insurance for workers and their families.
The President also proposes to expand the concept of AHPs to allow private, non-profit, multi-State entities to band together to offer coverage to their members, outside the workplace. In addition, the President envisions transforming the health care marketplace to make it easier for all Americans to shop for affordable coverage.