Education has always been a fundamental part of achieving the American Dream. An educated citizen is more likely to hold a good job, escape poverty, own a home, start a business, be free from crime, and participate in America's democracy.
During the President's first week in office, he submitted a plan to reform our Nation's elementary and secondary schools to ensure that all children are proficient in reading and math by the 2013-14 school year. Passed by Congress with overwhelming bipartisan majorities and signed into law by President Bush, the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) represents the most important Federal education reform in a generation. This law insists that testing, accountability, and high standards will join with record new funding to help ensure educational excellence for every child. And our Nation is seeing progress, especially in the early grades.
In January 2001, only 11 states were in full compliance with previous Federal education accountability standards. So, President Bush called for significant reforms to K-12 education through No Child Left Behind to set high standards and produce real results for every child in America. President Bush signed into law the No Child Left Behind Act to help the youngest Americans receive a quality education and learn the basic skills they need to succeed in the future. No Child Left Behind is providing increased funding for education, closing the achievement gap that exists between students of different socio-economic backgrounds, and providing more information and better options for parents.
All skills begin with the basics of reading and math, which should be learned in the early grades in America's schools. Yet for too long and for too many children, those skills were never mastered. With the bipartisan No Child Left Behind Act, America is making progress toward educational excellence for every child.
These grants will not only give states and districts a way to reward effective teachers, but states and districts could also use this information to identify particular strengths and weaknesses and provide the appropriate professional development in needed areas.
NCLB has already begun to make a difference for students, parents, teachers, and administrators across the United States. Every state that has released results this year has reported progress in one or more areas. More results include:
No Child Left Behind is already beginning to show results in elementary reading and math scores, but President Bush also wants to ensure that all high school students will be better prepared to enter higher education or the workforce. Unfortunately, recent results from the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) demonstrate that, while achievement for our Nation's fourth- and eighth-graders is on the rise, scores for twelfth-graders have declined in both reading and mathematics. In addition, today's middle and high school students did not have the chance to benefit from the reforms of the No Child Left Behind Act in elementary school, and many of these students need additional help to graduate from high school and enter college or the workforce prepared to succeed. Statistics show:
President Bush's proposals will help to ensure that every high school student graduates with the skills needed to succeed in college and a globally competitive workforce. Proposals include:
President Bush believes that America has the finest system of higher education in the world with a wide and diverse range of options available. Yet, there is a significant shortage of workers with adequate post-secondary education. Eighty percent of the fastest-growing jobs of the 21st century require post-secondary education or training. Approximately 650,000 adults are in need of short-term training and are not receiving the training today.
Traditionally, the system of higher education, including student aid formulas, was designed for full-time students between the ages of 18 and 24, who attend post-secondary education once in their lifetimes. Today's statistics indicate that only about one-third of the 15 million students enrolled in post-secondary education are these once-in-a-lifetime students, and changes in technology and the new economy are increasingly requiring individuals to return for additional post-secondary education to upgrade their skills.
The President's higher education proposals make the system more user-friendly - more oriented to the needs of today's students - and ensure students have access to programs that will provide the skills needed in the globally competitive 21st century economy. These proposals will also allow students greater access to programs based on recent technological advances.
Early childhood development is one of the best investments America can make to help ensure that children are successful in school and later in life. Studies show vocabulary, letter knowledge, and phonological awareness, in addition to social and emotional factors, have a significant impact on later success in school. Whether in pre-school or at home with parents or other caregivers, every young child should have the opportunity to develop the skills needed to succeed in school.
The President's Good Start, Grow Smart initiative has three goals:

Since announcing the Good Start, Grow Smart initiative, the President's Administration has made significant progress:

President Bush continues his efforts to strengthen early childhood education through the Good Start, Grow Smart program, including his proposal to strengthen Head Start. Additionally, the President will: