
As of today, July 7, 2004, the President has nominated 225 individuals to the Federal courts - 51 to the circuit courts and 174 to the district courts. The President's nominees come from diverse backgrounds, share sterling credentials, and are superbly qualified, with the finest legal training, unquestionable character, and proven judgment.

President Bush's nominees are the most qualified of any recent Administration, based on a review of American Bar Association ratings. Of the President's nominees who have been rated by the American Bar Association, 99% have been rated either well-qualified or qualified.

A Senate minority composed of Democrats is obstructing the judicial confirmation process by waging unprecedented filibusters against some of the President's most important nominees -- those to the Federal courts of appeals. Six of the President's appeals court nominees who have been favorably reported by the Senate Judiciary Committee have been denied up-or-down votes. Each has enjoyed the support of a bipartisan majority of Senators and would be confirmed if given a vote.

In this Presidency, more appeals court nominees have had to wait over a year for a confirmation hearing than in the last 50 years combined.

The efforts of some Democratic Senators to delay the confirmation of President Bush's judicial nominees come at a time when filings in the federal courts are at an all-time high. More than one-third (11) of the President's 25 pending judicial nominees are waiting to fill seats that have been designated judicial emergencies.

The President has proposed a plan that would return fairness and dignity to the judicial confirmation process and would apply no matter who is President or which party controls the Senate. Under the President's plan, judges would provide one-year advance notice of retirement, when possible; Presidents would submit nominations within 180 days of receiving notice of a vacancy or intended retirement, absent extraordinary circumstances; the Senate Judiciary Committee would hold a hearing within 90 days of receiving a nomination, and the full Senate would vote up-or-down on a nominee no more than 180 days after a nomination is submitted. Since announcing his plan, the President has submitted nominations within 180 days of receiving notice of a vacancy or intended retirement, absent extraordinary circumstances. And the Judicial Conference has adopted a policy for judges to give one-year advance notice of retirement. Regrettably, the Senate has not done its part. In many cases, it has unfairly delayed action on judicial nominations.