Today, President Bush traveled to Kansas City, Missouri to discuss with seniors the benefits of the new Medicare-approved Drug Discount Cards. Six months after the President signed into law the historic Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, seniors are able to achieve real savings on their prescription medicines by signing up for the cards.
More than three million seniors are already enrolled in one of the card programs, and the President encourages seniors to take advantage of the savings offered by the cards. Seniors can use the card to save 15 to 30 percent off the usual retail price of most brand name drugs and more on generics at neighborhood pharmacies. Low-income seniors struggling with high drug costs will be able to get these savings as well as an additional $600 a year credit - or $1,200 over the next 18 months - to help pay for prescriptions.
 Through the Medicare-approved drug discount program, the purchasing power of seniors is finally being pooled to provide real savings on prescriptions. And the drug card program also gives seniors unprecedented information on drug prices to comparison shop.
, a recent study found savings of 7 to 20 percent or more on mail-order prices for brand name drugs through Medicare-approved cards in comparison to some Internet sources.
 A new CMS study shows that savings on generic drugs range from 37 to 65 percent below the average generic prices paid by all Americans. Generic drugs are just as safe and effective as brand-name drugs in the United States, and generally cost about 70 percent less.
 The $600 credit is available only through cards with the Medicare-approved seal. There is no enrollment fee on any card for people who qualify for the $600 low-income credit. More than 7 million low-income beneficiaries may qualify, and for millions of low-income beneficiaries, these savings translate into 30 to 70 percent or more reductions in drug costs.
 Any of the $600 credit not used in 2004 will be carried over in their account for use in 2005.
 A growing list of drug manufacturers has agreed to make many of their products available at a nominal price to beneficiaries who have used up their $600 subsidy on prescription medicines. These seniors will benefit in three important ways from the cards: 1) lower prices on their medicines; 2) a $600 subsidy to help them buy these medicines at the discounted prices; and 3) availability of drugs at a nominal price through manufacturers once they've spent the subsidy.
 The Medicare law stipulates that the discounts and subsidies available through the cards will not result in a reduction or loss of benefits under any other federal program, including the food stamp program.
Seniors can learn how to sign up for the card and find the best card for them by calling 1-800-MEDICARE or by visiting 
.
Medicare customer service representatives will review the caller's drug needs and help them select the card that best meets their needs in less than 15 minutes on average.
Beneficiaries can help by having the following information ready when contacting 1-800-MEDICARE: zip code; list of prescription drugs, including dosage; income to determine if they are eligible for the $600 credit; and any special preferences, such as a particular pharmacy they like.
The web site, 
 has price comparison tools that seniors can use themselves. For the first time, seniors can get information on actual drug prices so they can comparison shop.
 In 2006, seniors without coverage will be able to join a Medicare-approved plan that will cut their yearly drug costs roughly in half, in exchange for a monthly premium of about $35. In many cases, the savings will be even greater. For example:
-helping to control the costs of Medicare by using market-place competition, not government price-setting. And seniors will be able to choose the health care plan that best fits their needs-instead of having that choice made by the government.