President George W. Bush

November 6, 2003

Washington, D.C.
 The G-8 Leaders met today with Leaders of 
 to discuss how to support efforts in the broader Middle East to pursue 
 The G-8 Leaders welcomed the unanimous approval of 
 and noted the importance of the Multinational Force for Iraq succeeding in it mission. The G-8 Leaders pledged to:
 The G-8 Leaders committed to a historic "
" to support political, social, and economic reform in the region. This Partnership builds on President Bush's "
," which he announced last November. Specifically, the G-8 committed to:
 President Bush outlined on February 11, 2004 an ambitious global nonproliferation agenda, stating: 
 The G-8 agreed today to advance this agenda by committing to:
The G-8 Leaders urged all states to implement recently passed U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540, which calls on countries to 
The G-8 Leaders also welcomed 
 to dismantle its weapons of mass destruction programs, and called for the complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement of 
 The G-8 were united that 
 with its Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and IAEA obligations.
 President Bush and the G-8 Leaders launched the 
 to enhance international counterterrorism cooperation by strengthening security of international travel. The SAFTI action plan commits the G-8 to 
, including:
 President Bush secured G-8 support for an innovative 
 President Bush has emphasized promoting economic freedom and entrepreneurship as the drivers of job creation and poverty reduction. The recent U.N. report, "
" underscores the importance of private sector-led development in poverty alleviation. Today, the G-8 committed to assist developing countries in:
 President Bush highlighted U.S. leadership in boosting the global economy, which is expected to grow faster in 2004-2005 than in any two-year period since the late 1970's. G-8 Leaders agreed it was important to take advantage of the strong global economic environment to implement further reforms to accelerate growth in their countries.
President Bush and the other G-8 Leaders agreed that we face a 
: by combining the upturn in global growth with a worldwide reduction in trade barriers, we can deepen, broaden, and extend the current economic expansion. Thus, the G-8 Leaders committed to work toward an ambitious outcome in the core market areas of agriculture, goods, and services in the 
, and directed their trade ministers, and called on all WTO members, to finalize framework agreements by July to 