President Bush addressed entrepreneurs and students at Marshall University and Marshall Community and Technical College in Huntington, West Virginia, where he pointed to the growing strength of the economy and discussed his policies to create more jobs and keep America's workers the best trained and best educated in the world.
The tax relief proposed and signed into law by President Bush was the right action at the right time for our economy. In the second half of 2003, the economy grew at the fastest rate in nearly two decades, and America has the fastest growing economy of any industrialized country in the world. Manufacturing activity is increasing. Inflation is low, and interest rates and mortgage rates are near historic lows. Homeownership rates are at the highest level ever. After-tax incomes are up by 10% since December 2000 'substantially higher than those following the last recession. And the President's tax relief agenda has resulted in significant benefits for the residents of West Virginia:
 The President has outlined a six-point plan to create even more job opportunities for America's workers and keep America the best place in the world to do business. The plan includes: enabling families and businesses to plan for the future with confidence by making tax reductions permanent; making health care costs more affordable and predictable; reducing the burden of lawsuits on our economy; ensuring an affordable, reliable energy supply; streamlining regulations and paperwork requirements; and opening new markets for American products and services.
America is economically stronger when we participate fully in the worldwide economy. 95% of the world's population lives outside the United States and represents a vast potential market for U.S. companies. The President's commitment to promoting free and fair trade will open new markets for American products and services, bring lower prices and more choices to American consumers, and create more higher-paying jobs for American workers.
As we recognize the benefits of free and fair trade, we also recognize that any economic change--whether arising from trade or technology--can be painful for some workers and their families. We must help these workers deal with the dislocation and acquire the skills to find good-paying jobs. The President's FY 2005 budget commits significant resources to help displaced workers find jobs, and seeks to improve high school education and strengthen post-secondary education and job training.
 A pro-growth economic agenda, a strong education system, and help for American workers to gain the skills to secure good jobs are the right ways to respond to the challenges of our growing and changing economy.