 At $333 billion, or 2.7 percent of GDP, it would be smaller than the deficits in 15 of the last 25 years as a percentage of GDP.
 After three straight years of declines due to economic weakness, tax receipts will have risen two consecutive years.
 The economy has created over 3.7 million jobs since May 2003, with steady job gains for each of the last 25 months - and more Americans are working than ever before.
 Projections show the deficit will fall to $162 billion in 2009, or 1.1 percent of GDP, significantly surpassing President Bush's goal of cutting the deficit in half from its FY 2004 projected peak of $521 billion, or 4.5 percent of GDP. A deficit of 1.1 percent of GDP would be well below the 40-year average of 2.3 percent of GDP.
 
 President Bush and Congress have brought down the rate of growth of non-security spending in each year of his Administration. President Bush's 2006 Budget, released this February, was the first since the Reagan Administration to propose a cut in non-security discretionary spending, and also proposed to hold discretionary spending to below the expected rate of inflation. It also proposed savings in mandatory programs. Congress's Budget Resolution met these basic goals, and the Administration is working closely with Congress to hold to those limits in the appropriations process and to achieve the $35 billion in mandatory savings called for in the Budget Resolution.
 With the help of tax relief, the U.S. economy is growing at a healthy pace, creating millions of new jobs and increasing business investment.
 The Mid-Session Review projects tax receipts will rise 14 percent from last year - the largest such year-over-year increase in 25 years. Receipts are on pace to rise $87 billion more than expected last February; spending was $7 billion less than expected.
 The new deficit forecasts take into account full extension of tax relief, war spending in 2005 and a substantial part of 2006, and the expected financing impact from creating voluntary personal retirement accounts under the President's Social Security reform proposal.
 The Bush Administration is working with Congress to develop legislation that addresses the solvency of Social Security in a manner that protects low-income seniors and makes Social Security a better deal for young workers without raising the payroll tax rate.