The President complimented Prime Minister Blair for his leadership in spotlighting the important issues of Africa and climate. The G-8 also addressed a wide variety of issues, including: the global economy, energy, oil, trade, intellectual property rights, regional issues, post-tsunami recovery, counter-terrorism, safety, non-proliferation, and reform in the Broader Middle East.
 The G-8 re-committed itself to partnering with African nations to achieve their vision of sustainable growth, development and active participation in the world economy. The G-8 set out concrete measures that will have a real impact on bettering the lives of African people, advancing several important U.S. priorities.
 The G-8 also dealt with the issue of climate change in a constructive way that builds on common ground and, for the first time, included developing nations in climate discussions. Together, the G-8 have reached consensus on an approach to climate change that joins together developed and developing countries and acknowledges the inter-related challenges of energy security and development. The Plan of Action, agreed by leaders, contains concrete steps to help:
 G-8 leaders recommitted themselves to advancing peace in the Middle East by:
 The G-8 leaders agreed to strengthen the Broader Middle East and North Africa initiative developed last year by:
 The events in London were a tragic reminder of the nature of the enemies that we face in the global war on terror. G-8 leaders invited all countries to join them in a sustained commitment to identify and reduce the terrorist threat, promote freedom and security, protect democracy and ensure the rule of law. They committed to:
 The United States joined today with G-8 partners in reaffirming a strong commitment to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, particularly focusing on countering the threat of terrorists acquiring such weapons. The G-8 agreed to take forward this important work through:
 President Bush highlighted the strong outlook for U.S. economic growth, employment, and deficit reduction. The G-8 Leaders agreed to take action to address global imbalances and high and volatile oil prices, specifically:

President Bush pressed leaders to commit to ambitious trade reforms that lead to increased economic opportunity, the promotion of economic development and the alleviation of poverty. The President emphasized that a successful conclusion to the WTO Doha Development Agenda (DDA) would create new market opportunities that could lift millions out of poverty. Through his efforts, G-8 leaders approved a G-8 Leaders Statement whereby leaders, among other actions:
 Building on the Bush Administration's initiative to stop trade in pirated and counterfeit goods, the G-8 leaders committed G-8 countries to, among other actions:
 Led by public and private assistance from the United States, latest figures suggest about $9 billion have been contributed to tsunami relief and reconstruction. G-8 leaders agreed to support international efforts to: