President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Carol E. Dinkins, of Texas, to be Chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Ms. Dinkins is currently a Partner with Vinson and Elkins, LLP in Houston, Texas. From 1984 to 1985, she served as Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice, where she previously served as Assistant Attorney General in the Environment and Natural Resources Division. The President intends to nominate Alan Charles Raul, of the District of Columbia, to be Vice Chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Mr. Raul is currently a Partner with Sidley, Austin, Brown & Wood, LLP in Washington, D.C. He served as General Counsel at the Department of Agriculture from 1989 to 1993. He previously worked at the Office and Management and Budget from 1988 to 1989. Prior to that, Mr. Raul served as Associate Counsel to the President at the White House.
The President intends to appoint Lanny J. Davis, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Mr. Davis is currently a Partner with Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, LLP in Washington, D.C. He served as Special Counsel to the President at the White House from 1996 to 1998.
The President intends to appoint Theodore B. Olson, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Mr. Olson is currently a Partner with Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, LLP in Washington, D.C. From 2001 to 2004, Mr. Olson was the Solicitor General of the United States. He previously served as the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice.
The President intends to appoint Francis X. Taylor, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Mr. Taylor currently serves as Chief Security Officer for The General Electric Company in Fairfield, Connecticut. From 2002 to 2005, he served as Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security and Director of the Office of Foreign Missions with the rank of Ambassador. Prior to that, Mr. Taylor was Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the Department of State with the rank of Ambassador at Large.