The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 3 as reported from committee. Enactment of a long-term highway, highway safety, and transit authorization bill is long overdue and would provide States and localities with predictable funding that enhances long-term transportation planning. The President's FY 2006 Budget would provide $283.9 billion over six years, a historically high level of funding. It represents a $73 billion (35 percent) increase over the amount provided in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), the six-year bill enacted in 1998.
The Administration believes the surface-transportation reauthorization legislation should exhibit funding restraint and provide long-term funding predictability.
Under the final version of the surface transportation bill, total obligation limitations for surface-transportation programs (combined with contract authority that is exempt from obligation limitations and general fund appropriations for public transportation) must not exceed $283.9 billion over the period 2004 through 2009. Likewise, the net authorization level must not exceed $283.9 billion over the six years. (To the extent the gross authorization level exceeds $283.9 billion, an offsetting rescission should be included in the legislation.) 
 
The Administration strongly opposes the establishment of an entity that would issue new debt instruments to provide additional transportation spending. The creation of new Federal borrowing mechanisms negatively impacts the deficit, disguises the true costs to taxpayers, and is highly inefficient. 
 
. This bill would affect direct spending and receipts. To sustain the economy's expansion, it is critical to exercise responsible restraint over Federal spending. The Budget Enforcement Act's pay-as-you-go requirements and discretionary spending caps expired on September 30, 2002. The President's FY 2006 Budget includes a proposal to extend the discretionary caps through 2010, a pay-as-you-go requirement for direct spending, and a new mechanism to control the expansion of long-term unfunded obligations. OMB's cost estimate for this bill is currently under development.