 President Rutherford B. Hayes officially opened the White House grounds to local children for egg rolling on Easter Monday in 1878. Successive Presidents have continued the tradition of inviting children to the South Lawn for egg rolling and other activities and entertainment. On occasion, the Easter Egg Roll has been cancelled, either due to inclement weather or in times of war (World War I and World War II).
 Yes. Tickets to this year's White House Easter Egg Roll were distributed to the public on Saturday, March 26th. Remaining tickets were made available to the public on the morning of the event, Monday, March 28th.
 Yes. Mrs. Bush has extended a special invitation through USA Freedom Corps to organizations promoting youth mentoring programs.
 16,000 tickets were distributed for this event.
 Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings and Secretary of Health and Human Services Michael O. Leavitt will be co-hosting this year's event.
 Easter Egg Roll activities begin on the Ellipse with food and entertainment. On the White House South Lawn, children ages 7 or younger can take part in the egg roll. Children of all ages can enjoy the reading corners, egg coloring, art activities, face painting, music, magicians and other activities. Strolling characters will interact with the children as they roam the South Lawn. At the reading corners, visitors will be treated to storytelling by authors of popular children's books, Cabinet members and senior administration officials.
 The American Egg Board provided approximately 7,200 real eggs for the annual Egg Roll activity. Another 4,000 dyed eggs were provided for the Egg Hunt, and an additional 4,000 were boiled and will be provided for children to dye at an activity area on-site.
 Jennifer Carrasco, from Seattle, Washington, designed this year's commemorative wooden egg and the commemorative poster. Jennifer has taught art in the United States, Japan and Korea, in addition to spending 13 years teaching with the Department of Defense Schools in the Philippines and Taiwan. 
Arne Dixon and his team of world-class yoyo professionals, perform an interactive show featuring more than thirty outstanding yoyo tricks. The NED Show, teaches three essential characteristics for becoming a champion in school and in life: 
This Grammy Award winner for "Best Musical Recording For Children" is high energy, FUN with every song inviting willing participation. Barbara captivates all ages with her powerful voice, skillful guitar work, and animated stage presence. She was voted "Best Acoustic Act" and "Best Music Act" by colleges nationwide and recently returned from performing in Thailand. She's educational, fun, funny, and highly entertaining.
The Family Tree(tm) is a new audience participation family theater production for children ages 3 and up. Performed at American Girl Place in Chicago and New York, Bitty Bear's Matinee celebrates the virtues of family and friendship while teaching age-appropriate skills such as sharing and working together. Based on the Bitty Bear books in American Girl's popular Bitty Baby(r) doll line, the live musical performance is done in story-theater style, featuring three of the lovable Bitty Bunch characters-Bitty Bear, Bitty Puppy, and Bitty Kitty.
Bear is the seven-foot lovable host of the Emmy Award-winning children's television series. He always exudes warmth, comfort and understanding to everyone around him. He scratches and sniffs, often putting his nose right up to the camera lens. Bear is curious about everything around him, and has never lost his natural sense of wonderment. His intimate manner engages young children as he speaks directly to them, while his inquisitive style encourages them to join in, play along, verbally interact and use their imaginations. Filled with civility and concern, Bear also loves to help his friends, constantly displaying infinite patience and interest in their activities.
The king of kids' cowboy music with rootin' tootin' tunes for children of all ages. He also hosts his own nationally syndicated radio show, Cow Pie Radio, and stars in a new kids' tv series, the Buck Howdy Show, from Sony Pictures Television.
Aiming to inspire creativity, provoke imaginative thought, and introduce children - musically - to cultural diversity, Ernie & Neal's extraordinarily versatile style explores many sounds and rhythms, and their inspirational and motivational themes run the gamut of creative expression. They also feature a pleasant musical combination of teaching, storytelling, entertaining, educating and informing.
Science rocks with Flumpa(r) the tree frog and Wendy Whitten - 'The Singing Scientist.' Charged with energy and fun, this fast-paced interactive musical science show will blast off at the speed of sound delivering a unique blend of music with a twist of science for a captivating exploration of our world. This universally engaging group has performed at over 3,000 events and schools nationwide to over 2,000,000 people since 1995 and has won 17 national awards including several Dr. Toy and iParenting awards.
Stop by the Animal Planet stage to get up close and personal with live animals, including a real bunny rabbit. Jim Boller from the hit Animal Planet show, ANIMAL COPS: HOUSTON, will be signing autographs, answering questions and offering pet advice throughout the day.
Houston SPCA Director of Field Services Jim Boller leads the team of investigators who are featured on ANIMAL COPS: HOUSTON. His team covers 2,600 square miles and processes more than 9,000 cruelty cases a year, including many exotic animals such as lions, snakes, ostriches and spiders. Boller has 29 years of animal-related experience and is recognized around the world for his knowledge and expertise in the field of animal welfare.
Animal Planet is the only television network dedicated exclusively to the connection between humans and animals. The network's original programming brings together people of all ages by tapping into a fundamental fascination with animals and providing an entertaining mix of programming, including original movies, adventure series, sports, drama and sitcoms.
As a two-time Parents' Choice Award Winner, Jim Cosgrove has been described as "The most intriguing kids entertainer out there right now." With his soothing voice, an acoustic guitar, and a box full of instruments, he has entertained tens of thousands of kids throughout the United States and Europe. The high-energy performances are interactive with an opportunity for kids to play along in an impromptu "jam" session.
A family trio made up of Billy Schlosser, his wife Lisa Michaelis and their ten-year-old daughter Emily, Laughing Pizza makes music for families to share. Billy and Lisa have been writing songs for more than 15 years. Their experience in writing for the children's music market includes songs for Mary Kate and Ashley Olson, the Cartoon Network TV show "Big Bag", and an entire CD of 19 shape and counting songs called "Make it Count", which has become part of the curriculum in public schools in several states. Laughing Pizza has released four Parents Choice Award winning music and video products.
Barney, the popular fun-loving purple dinosaur, is the best friend a child could ever have. He happens to be a 6-foot Tyrannosaurus Rex. And, speed along and zoon into action as Mr. McFeely the Speedy Delivery Man meets the cast of ZOOM.
RAGGS and his four colorful canine friends is a costumed character band that mixes original award-winning music with popular favorites in a high-energy interactive show for children. They perform throughout the US with recent performances at the Heart of Texas Fair, the Alabama National Fair, the New York State Fair, and California Kids Fest. Their 2 DVDs and 4 CDs have received the Seal of Approval from the National Parenting Center, iParenting Award, the Creative Child Award and were nominated for two Emmy Awards.
This quintessential American family entertainment tradition has delighted audiences across the country for nearly 135 years. These performers and clowns, as part of The Greatest Show On Earth, have brought wide smiles, laughter and joy to millions, and join us today to meet Children of All Ages. Ringmaster Kevin Venardos, Songstress Jennifer Fuentes-an "American Idol" top-30 finalist, Christine Winn and our world famous Ringling Bros. clowns bring the magic of their latest production to the White House lawn.
Delivering humor, suspense, good messages and lots of silliness through the use of expressive, custom made puppets, The Silly Socks Puppet Theater has appeared across America and nearby at the National Theater and Wolftrap Center. Brian Foster, the lead puppeteer for Silly Socks, has been writing and performing original puppet theater for over a decade.
 Chad Juros started his magic career in 1991 at the age of three when he was diagnosed with leukemia. While receiving chemotherapy and radiation treatments, his father taught him magic to help deal with the discomfort. Chad's magical career includes performances around the world for corporate events pediatric cancer hospitals, hospices and foundations and career highlights include his role as the young David Copperfield for a primetime TV show, as well as Volvo for Life Award finalist.
 For more than twenty years, Dr. Eldoonie has performed his magic for national and international audiences. He has appeared in several television productions throughout his career and is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the World's Fastest Magician.
Magic Stage will feature some of the best kid's magicians from around the country. The DC area's own 
 was voted "Best" a record nine times and makes his 6th appearance at the Easter Egg Roll! 
 is Atlanta's best kid show magician who turns a child into a magician at every show! New York City is the home of 
 their most famous children's performer. 
 the Magical Storyteller, comes from North Carolina and is the host of the best Kid Show conference in the world. From Philadelphia, 
 holds the Guinness World Record for most balloon sculptures in one hour! Bruce Bray is New Jersey's busiest professional children's magician. 
 is New Jersey's funniest kid's comedian. 
 visits us from Houston and is the nation's best-known female children's magician. From Boston, 
 is one of the most creative and imaginative people in magic.
Charlie Brown
Snoopy
Raggedy Ann
Raggedy Andy
Peter Cottontail
Babar
B.B. Rabbit
Arthur
The Berenstain Bears
Caillou
Cassie from DRAGON TALES
Clifford the Big Red Dog
Digit and Harry from CYBERCHASE
Grover SESAME STREET
Jay Jay the Jet Plane
Leona from BETWEEN THE LIONS
Maya & Miguel
Mechanical Noo-noo from TELETUBBIES
Piggley Winks from JAKERS! THE ADVENTURES OF PIGGLEY WINKS
Mr. McFeely, the Speedy Delivery Man, from MISTER ROGERS' NEIGHBORHOOD
Patchy Panda
Larry & Bob - Veggie Tales
JoJo & Goliath
Peter Rabbit
Winnie the Pooh
The Very Hungry Caterpillar
Louie the Baysox Mascot
The Official White House Bunnies
Woodrow the White House Mouse
For more information, please visit the White House Web Site at WWW.WHITEHOUSE.GOV.