The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 3 as reported from committee. Enactment of a long-term highway, highway safety, and transit authorization bill is long overdue and would provide States and localities with predictable funding that enhances long-term transportation planning. The Administration's proposal, as modified by the President's fiscal year 2006 Budget, would provide $283.9 billion over six years, a historically high level of funding. It represents a $73 billion (+35 percent) increase over the amount provided in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21), the six-year bill enacted in 1998.
The Administration believes the surface transportation reauthorization legislation should exhibit funding restraint and provide long-term funding certainty.
Under the final version of H.R. 3, total obligation limitations for surface transportation programs (combined with contract authority that is exempt from the obligation limitations and general fund appropriations for public transportation) must not exceed $283.9 billion over six years. Likewise, the net authorization level must not exceed $283.9 billion over six years (to the extent the gross authorization level exceeds $283.9 billion, an offsetting rescission should be included in the legislation as well). 
The Administration strongly opposes Section 1125 of the bill, which would delay States from receiving most of their fiscal year 2006 highway program funds until August 1, 2006, 10 months after the fiscal year starts, unless a subsequent law is enacted addressing guaranteed rates of return and minimum rates of growth in State Federal-aid highway funding. This provision would prevent States from obligating Federal funds during the 2006 prime construction season and negate the stability and planning benefits of a long-term authorization bill. 
This bill would affect direct spending and receipts. To sustain the economy's expansion, it is critical to exercise responsible restraint over Federal spending. The Budget Enforcement Act's pay-as-you-go requirements and discretionary spending caps expired on September 30, 2002. The President's FY 2006 Budget includes a proposal to extend the discretionary caps through 2010, a pay-as-you-go requirement for direct spending, and a new mechanism to control the expansion of long-term unfunded obligations. OMB's cost estimate of this bill currently is under development.