 The President is committed to providing our troops with the resources and equipment they need to complete their mission. His request supports this commitment by including $42.5 billion to support ongoing military and intelligence operations in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom in Iraq.
 The request includes $17.3 billion to ensure that our Armed Forces remain well-equipped and well-structured to fight the War on Terror.
 The President's request includes nearly $400 million to fund enhanced benefits for the survivors of service members killed while serving our country in the War on Terror since operations in Afghanistan began in October 2001.
 To accelerate the training of Iraqi and Afghan security forces, including State Department-led training for Afghan law enforcement agencies, allowing both new governments to begin to assume more responsibility for their security and sovereignty, this request will include $7.4 billion.
 The request includes nearly $2 billion to support the U.S. mission in Afghanistan, addressing some of the most critical remaining security and reconstruction needs and complementing base funding of the longer-term reconstruction program, such as:
 The President's request includes $717 million for U.S. Embassy operations and security expenses, and $658 million in one-time, total costs for a new secure facility.
Commanders Emergency Response Program: The request includes $354 million in additional funds to continue a very successful program that permits U.S. military commanders to assist in small-scale local reconstruction, rehabilitation, and recovery initiatives in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 The President's request includes almost $2 billion to support our key partners in freedom in their military efforts alongside U.S. forces. It also includes $400 million in two new funds to provide economic assistance to our partners in the War on Terror and security assistance to those nations with troops fighting alongside our own in Iraq and Afghanistan:
 This request includes $150 million for Pakistan as a part of the President's multiyear security assistance commitment to this key ally. The request also includes $300 million in economic and security assistance for Jordan.
 In the immediate aftermath of one of the most devastating natural disasters of the last century, President Bush initially committed $350 million in assistance. Following assessments of the needs in the region, the President has decided to request a total of $950 million, which will reimburse agencies for their relief efforts to date and contribute to regional recovery and rebuilding efforts.
 To address needs for the humanitarian crisis in this part of Africa, this request includes $242.4 million for food aid, refugee assistance, and support for the needs of displaced persons. The request also includes $100 million to support the people of Sudan and to help implement the north-south elements of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement that was signed on January 9, 2005.
 Following the recent historic election held by the Palestinians, this request includes $200 million to reinforce these positive political developments by supporting the development of economic opportunity and democratic institutions. This money will be used to develop infrastructure and support critical sectors like education, home construction, and basic services. These funds are key to the vision of two states, with a Palestinian state that is a partner for peace with Israel, and they will support work between the Palestinians and Israelis on economic and social matters.
 The recent historic elections provide an unparalleled opportunity to help secure and advance the victory for democracy in Ukraine, making Ukraine a more capable, reliable partner. The President's request includes $60 million to support the new government's ability to consolidate gains Ukraine has made, establish the rule of law, combat corruption, and accelerate economic reforms.
 This supplemental request includes $780 million for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities to support the United States' share of new peacekeeping missions, including those in Haiti, Cote D'Ivoire, Burundi and an anticipated mission in Sudan. These missions help ensure humanitarian assistance can move freely and work towards elections can proceed, as well as relieve the requirements for additional deployments of U.S. forces.