 "Aside from modestly raising fuel economy standards, it has not created a regulatory climate favorable to carbon reductions either in vehicles or in power plants." (Editorial, "A Sorry Record," 
, 7/11/06)
 U.S. greenhouse gas intensity – the amount emitted per unit of economic activity – declined by 2.0 percent in 2003 and by 2.5 percent in 2004.
 The President's 2007 Budget proposes $6.5 billion for climate change activities.
 These fuels could help reduce our dependence on foreign sources of oil and lead to substantial reductions in future air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
 It will also improve batteries for hybrid and plug-in hybrid vehicles and accelerate the development of zero-emission cars that run on hydrogen.
 Without nuclear energy, carbon dioxide emissions would have been 28 percent greater in the electricity industry in 2004, and America would have an additional 700 million tons a year of carbon dioxide.
 Multilaterally, the U.S. provides the most funding of any country for activities under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).
 The President's 2007 Budget request includes $52 million for this partnership.
 The U.S. will commit up to $53 million to this Partnership through 2009 to work with the private sector to share and expand the use of profitable technologies to capture methane emissions that are now wasted in the course of industrial processes and use them as a new energy source.
 These increases were the first in over a decade and for the first time ever require large Sport Utility Vehicles to meet the standards. President Bush has asked Congress for the authority to take similar action for passenger cars.
 The Administration has also supported mandatory measures more appropriately taken at the State level, such as renewable portfolio standards and building codes.
 In his 2007 Budget and again in April 2006, President Bush called for the elimination of about $2 billion in tax incentives for oil and gas that were included in the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
 Tax credits are extended to vehicles such as hybrids and clean diesel without preference for a particular technology.
 The Department of Agriculture (USDA) will provide targeted incentives to encourage wider use of land management practices that remove carbon from the atmosphere or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.