July 30, 2006 – 2:45 p.m.




 Willie Mays, National Baseball Hall of Fame member; Former Major League Baseball Player
 Charlie Brotman, Former Announcer for the Washington Senators Baseball Team; Inaugural Announcer since President Eishenhower's Inauguration
 Al Leiter, Sports Announcer; Former Major League Baseball Player
 Dan Wilson, Former Major League Baseball Player
 Nichola Kouzes, Colleyville, Texas
 Girl Scout Council of the Nation's Capital
 Kevin Turley, Seaton School, Washington, DC
President Bush launched his White House Tee Ball Initiative to promote interest in baseball and a spirit of teamwork and service for America's youth. This is the sixth year of the President's White House Tee Ball Initiative, and this is the second game of the 2006 season. Teams are selected by Little League Baseball in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and can be nominated online at 
.

Tee ball is the entry sport to baseball for young players, generally four to eight years old. Tee ball develops the primary baseball skills of hitting, running, fielding, and throwing and gives children solid teamwork experience. Tee ball is played in every state and territory and in dozens of countries around the world. Participation is estimated at 2.2 million players -- 65% boys and 35% girls. Members of two teams take turns hitting a ball off a batting tee set on home plate. Batters try to get on base and advance to home; fielders try to prevent that from happening. The absence of pitching allows children to participate without the fear of being hit by a pitched ball. The players gain an understanding of the fundamental rules, which allows minimally competitive league play at all age levels.

Little League's Challenger division features teams of mentally and physically disabled children. This division serves the needs of disabled children by providing the learning experience of tee ball and the camaraderie of team sports. The players range in age from 5 to 18 years old. In the Challenger Division, players are accompanied by "buddies" who offer assistance to the Challenger players when needed. This fellowship between children with disabilities and the non-disabled helps develop social skills for both groups.