 The G-8 Leaders:
 G-8 Leaders also stated that a permanent solution required:
 The G-8 also agreed that:
 The resolution condemned the launching of multiple ballistic missiles by North Korea on July 5, expressed grave concern about the DPRK's indication of possible additional launches, demanded that the DPRK suspend all activities related to its ballistic missile program and reestablish its preexisting commitments to a moratorium on missile launches, required all member states to exercise vigilance to prevent the transfer of missile-related goods and technology to or from North Korea, and reiterated the necessity for the DPRK to return to full compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Leaders also:
 They called upon all countries to work with utmost urgency for conclusion of the Doha round by the end of 2006, to strengthen the multilateral trading system and provide an important boost for the world's economy. Leaders also:
 The G-8 Leaders endorsed a statement of energy security principles affirming open, transparent, competitive markets for energy production, supply, use, and transport. They agreed to enhance global energy security through a Plan of Action focusing on:
 They committed to undertake vigorous efforts to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis (TB), malaria, polio, and measles, and encourage preparations by all countries on avian influenza and potential human pandemic influenza. Leaders also agreed to:
 Such corruption inhibits opportunities for the underprivileged, undermines sound public financial management, deters foreign investment, stifles economic growth and development, and undermines democracy and the rule of law. Leaders agreed to:
 G-8 Leaders:
 (WMD). They noted that any expansion of the peaceful use of nuclear energy must be carried forward in a manner that does not add to the risk of further nuclear proliferation. In particular, G-8 Leaders:
 They expressed support for the permanent Iraqi government, commended its reconciliation initiative, and urged it to continue efforts to achieve national accord. Leaders also:
 Leaders committed to providing support and assistance to the formation of a peaceful, independent, and prosperous state, without terrorism, narcotics, or the presence of the Taliban. Leaders also:
 They also:
 They also announced a strong, results-oriented work plan to accomplish this objective by:
 Leaders agreed to:
 The U.S. is committed to working in partnership with African nations to help them achieve their vision of growth, development, and active participation in the global economy, and obtained the support of the G-8 leaders to continue to:
 G-8 Leaders agreed to convene G-8 experts, UN representatives, appropriate regional organization representatives, and representatives from other countries to: