 Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has replaced the old system of administrative hearings and fines with a much tougher combination of criminal prosecutions and asset forfeitures. ICE is conducting far more criminal investigations than the former Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), which tended to rely on administrative fines as a sanction.
 These criminal arrests have increased from 24 in FY99 to 160 in FY04 to 176 in FY05 and to a record 382 so far this fiscal year. The number of indictments and criminal convictions has also increased.
 Seven current and former managers of IFCO Systems North America were charged with harboring aliens and document fraud, and 1,187 unlawfully employed illegal aliens were arrested.
 ICE also seized millions of dollars in cash and assets from employers.
 Operation Rollback also resulted in the arrest of hundreds of illegal immigrants and criminal convictions against a dozen employers. The $15 million settlement and forfeiture resulting from Operation Rollback is greater than the combined sum of all administrative fines from the previous eight years.
 The Administration's FY07 budget request seeks $41.7 million in new funds and 171 additional agents to enhance ICE's worksite enforcement efforts.
 Basic Pilot is a voluntary, online verification system that allows employers to confirm the eligibility of new hires by checking the information they provide against Federal databases.
 The President's FY 2007 budget requests $111 million to expand Basic Pilot.
 Basic Pilot is still optional, and most employers do not participate. Both the House and Senate immigration bills would require employers to use Basic Pilot.
 Millions of Social Security numbers provided by employers do not match the information in the Social Security Administration's (SSA) databases. In cases where an employer has ten or more employees with inaccurate information, the SSA sends the employer a "no-match" letter. DHS's proposed "no-match" regulation sets forth an employer's current obligations under the immigration laws when an employer receives a no-match letter and makes clear that employers who ignore the discrepancies between SSA databases and the information provided by their employees may be viewed under the law as knowing that the employees are illegal workers, making it easier for ICE to prosecute violators.
 This card would use biometric technology, such as digital fingerprints, to help make it tamper-proof. With a tamper-proof card, American employers would know that a foreign job applicant is who he says he is – and is in our country legally and is seeking to find work in accordance with the law.