. The Administration has launched a broad outreach campaign to educate seniors and disabled Americans about Medicare's new prescription drug coverage program. More than 29 million beneficiaries have already signed up. The typical senior who previously lacked drug coverage will spend about half of what he or she used to spend on prescription drugs - an average annual savings of $1,100.
 Medicare covers 95 percent of all prescription costs once beneficiaries spend $3,600 of their own money each year.
 Millions of Americans with developmental and physical disabilities, mental illness, and HIV/AIDS count on Medicare. Medicare's new drug coverage brings them secure coverage and modern medicine.
 Seniors are choosing plans that best meet their individual health needs. Enrollment data show that around 90 percent of beneficiaries are in plans that are different from the standard plan designed by the government. Many are choosing plans that offer lower deductibles or no deductibles; fixed co-payments for most drugs; and extra coverage to fill in the coverage gap.
 Employers and unions providing drug coverage to their retirees with Medicare can continue doing so, and Medicare will help with the cost.
. Seniors and Americans with disabilities who enroll in Medicare Advantage plans and other Medicare health plans can choose the plan best fitting their needs and lifestyles. These plans can enable them to save an average of $100 each month over traditional Medicare.
 Under standard Medicare prescription drug coverage, once a person's cumulative drug expenses reach $2,250, there is a gap in coverage until out-of-pocket spending reaches $3,600. However, competition in the prescription drug marketplace has resulted in many affordable drug plans that cover this gap as well.
 The FDA requires that all generic drugs have the same dosage, strength, safety, and quality as their brand-name equivalents. When people switch to generics, they can save hundreds or thousands of dollars. A recent Consumers Union study found that people could save enough to cover the cost of their premiums by switching to equally effective, lower-cost medicines.
 For best results, Medicare recipients should sign up for a Medicare drug plan early in the month before they want coverage. This enables them to receive the most out of their coverage.
 Medicare beneficiaries and their family members with questions about Medicare drug coverage can call 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227; TTY users call 1-877-486-2048) or visit 
. 1-800-MEDICARE wait times average less than two minutes.
 Even those without significant drug expenses should consider joining a Medicare drug plan to avoid unforeseen prescription drug bills later in life.
 On average, Medicare will pay for more than 95 percent of the costs of prescription drugs for low-income seniors.
 For example, in Iowa the Administration is working with the Iowa Farm Bureau, the Iowa Grange, and other partners to ensure seniors in rural communities hear about the benefits and plans available to them.
 An average of 380,000 beneficiaries are enrolling each week.
 Enrollment in Medicare Advantage plans has increased by about 1 million since sign up for the Medicare prescription drug coverage began.