 "While millions of seniors and people with disabilities are signing up and saving money, the program is being used least by those who could benefit most: poor, often minority Medicare beneficiaries." (Richard Wolf, "Those Most In Need May Miss Drug Benefit Sign-up," 
, 5/9/06)
 About 3 million beneficiaries who have not yet enrolled are eligible for the LIS. A one-time opportunity using a special enrollment period will enable these beneficiaries to enroll in a Medicare prescription drug plan immediately after they become eligible for the limited-income subsidy, even if this is after May 15. The extra help available through the LIS allows for comprehensive and valuable drug coverage - in most cases costing beneficiaries a few dollars for every prescription.
 (Richard Wolf, "Those Most In Need May Miss Drug Benefit Sign-up," 
, 5/9/06)
 The President met with organizations including the National Alliance for Hispanic Health, the National Council on Aging (NCOA), the NAACP, the AARP, Seniors Health Insurance Information Program (SHIIP), and the National Baptist Convention.
 The Administration Is Working With the National Alliance for Hispanic Health, the Hispanic Business Roundtable, the National Coalition of Latino Clergy and Christian Leaders. The Administration has also reached out through public-service announcements on Univision, Telemundo, and Spanish radio. As a result, we are getting hundreds of enrollments each day through 1-800-MEDICARE and the National Alliance's "Su Familia" helpline.
 These partners include the National Medical Association, the National Council on Black Aged, the NAACP, the national fraternity and sorority organizations, and the many leaders in the faith based community.
 To reach the Asian American community, Medicare sponsored telephone lines in conjunction with the National Asian Pacific Center on Aging in three languages: Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese. To date, over 28,000 Asian American beneficiaries have received personalized assistance through these help lines, which have been advertised broadly in their communities. In April, President Bush and Secretary Chao participated in an Asian American outreach event in Annandale, Virginia.
 (Families USA, "The Medicare Drug Program Fails to Reach Low-Income Seniors," May 2006)
 About a third of seniors are eligible for prescription drug coverage that includes little or no premiums, low deductibles, and no gaps in coverage. On average, Medicare will pay for more than 95 percent of the costs of prescription drugs for low-income seniors.
 (Families USA, "The Medicare Drug Program Fails to Reach Low-Income Seniors," May 2006)