 This national monument will enable nearly 140,000 square miles of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands to receive our Nation's highest form of marine environmental protection. It honors our commitment to be good stewards of America's natural resources, shows what cooperative conservation can accomplish, and creates a new opportunity for ocean education and research for decades to come. The national monument will:
 It is more than 100 times larger than Yosemite National Park, larger than 46 of our 50 states, and more than seven times larger than all our National Marine Sanctuaries combined.
The New Monument Fulfills A Legacy Of Conservation First Begun By President Theodore Roosevelt. In 2004, the Administration released an Ocean Action Plan to promote an ethic of responsible use and stewardship of our oceans and coastal resources. By establishing this new national monument, we are implementing an important part of our plan.
 Americans are united in the belief that we must preserve our natural heritage and safeguard the environment around us for future generations. This belief is affirmed in our laws, and today this commitment was reaffirmed once again.
 The ten islands and atolls stretch over nearly 1,400 miles - the distance from Chicago to Miami.
 The monument will preserve access for native Hawaiian cultural activities. Within the boundaries of the monument, we will prohibit unauthorized passage of ships, unauthorized recreational or commercial activity, and any extraction of coral, wildlife, minerals, and other resources, or dumping of waste.
 To fight the destructive effects of abandoned nets and other debris, the President's Ocean Action Plan directed the Coast Guard, EPA, NOAA, the State Department, and the Interior Department to coordinate their efforts to improve how the Federal government tracks, prevents, and cleans up marine waste.
 Near the northern edge of the Northwestern Hawaiian islands lies Midway Island, the site of one of the most decisive battles of World War II. On this atoll, there is a memorial to the sacrifice and valor of those who fought in the Pacific theatre during World War II.
 Ninety-five percent of our planet's oceans have yet to be explored. We are just beginning to appreciate what the seas have to offer humanity. The waters of this new national monument will be a living laboratory that offers new opportunities to discover new life, helps us better manage our ocean ecosystems, and allows us to pursue advances in science.