 The President discussed the policies needed to keep the economy strong and growing in 2006. In the last two months, the economy has added more than 400,000 jobs - for a total of more than 4.6 million new jobs since May 2003. The 4.9 percent unemployment rate is lower than the average of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. The economy grew 4.1 percent at an annual rate in the third quarter of 2005 and has been growing above 3 percent in each of the past two years.
 Because the President believes that the American people can spend their hard-earned money better than the Federal government can, he called on Congress to reduce taxes - and Congress responded by lowering tax rates on individuals and families, reducing the marriage penalty, and cutting taxes on dividends and capital gains. The Administration put the death tax on the road to extinction and helped families by increasing the child credit. Real after-tax income per person has risen 7 percent since 2001.
 The Administration has reduced the growth of non-security discretionary spending each year the President has been in office. For 2006, we cut non-security discretionary spending below the 2005 spending level and worked with Congress to reduce entitlement spending by $40 billion. Working with Congress to cut non-security discretionary spending, keep overall discretionary spending growth below the inflation rate, restrain entitlement spending, and end or reduce low-priority or poorly performing government programs, the Administration remains on track to cut the budget deficit in half by 2009. In the long term, the President is committed to addressing the challenges posed by entitlements like Social Security and Medicare.
 To maintain the economy's strength, Congress must make the tax cuts permanent. If Congress does not act, a family of four making $50,000 today would eventually see their Federal income taxes go up nearly 50 percent. Small business owners would also pay more taxes, which means less money to create new jobs and buy new equipment.
 Congress needs to expand Health Savings Accounts (HSAs), which are helping put patients in charge of their health care decisions. With HSAs, workers and employers can put money into tax-free accounts to be used for out-of-pocket medical expenses. Congress needs to pass Association Health Plans that would allow small businesses to join together and buy insurance at the same discounts that big companies receive. The President has proposed expanding the development of health information technology. Also, Congress needs to pass common-sense medical liability reforms that will allow doctors to focus on patients and control medical costs.
 The Congress passed and the President signed class-action and bankruptcy reform, but more work remains to be done. Congress must also pass asbestos litigation reform that ensures victims are compensated fairly while curbing the overly burdensome cost of lawsuits on American businesses. To help small businesses, the President supports the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act, which would penalize frivolous lawsuits.
 The President signed the energy bill to help America conserve more energy, make cleaner and better use of existing resources, and promote the development of renewable and alternative sources.
 To ensure economic growth and create new job opportunities for Americans, the Administration will continue to open up new markets for American products and services overseas. The Administration is also working to ensure a level playing field for American products. The President strongly believes that so long as there is a level playing field, the American worker, entrepreneur, and farmer can compete with anybody, any time, any place.
 The President proposed and the Congress passed the No Child Left Behind Act to ensure America's schoolchildren improve their performance and acquire needed skills. The President has proposed initiatives to improve American high schools and make it easier for more Americans to receive a college education. The Federal government will also help workers get job training through community and technical colleges.