 Strengthening America's education system is one of the President's top priorities. While improving the quality of education requires good laws and policies, success ultimately depends on good teachers. Kim Oliver's dedication and commitment to excellence helped turn around Broad Acres Elementary School in Montgomery County, Maryland. Within three years of her arrival, the school went from possible forced restructuring as a result of poor academic performance to meeting or exceeding all No Child Left Behind (NCLB) requirements - with dramatic increases in reading and math scores for the school's second graders.
 NCLB benefits and empowers children, parents, teachers, and schools. America is challenging the soft bigotry of low expectations; ending the shuffling of children through the system; and building an education system that prepares children for the demands of the global economy. The Administration is raising expectations and increasing accountability; giving local authorities more flexibility with Federal funds; requiring curricula based on proven methods of successful teaching; and giving parents options when schools fail.
 The role of the Federal government is to insist on standards, provide resources, hold people accountable, and help school districts meet those standards. Under NCLB, schools that take Federal education money must show whether children are learning and whether expectations are being met. Because states are testing students and measuring performance, we can see that NCLB is producing results as test scores go up and the achievement gap narrows.
 NCLB is working, but we must continue holding schools accountable. The Nation needs to improve its high schools and test students in the ninth, tenth, and eleventh grades. The President has proposed initiatives to improve education by, for example, having more math and science professionals serve as adjunct high school teachers and training more teachers for Advanced Placement courses. With these reforms, the quality of secondary education will improve, and we can ensure that every student leaving high school in America has the skills they need to succeed in college and the 21st century economy.
 The President has launched the ACI to help our students do better in math and science. We will train 70,000 high school teachers to lead Advanced Placement courses in math and science, bring 30,000 math and science professionals to teach in classrooms, and give early help to students who struggle with math. If we ensure America's children have the skills they need to succeed in life, they will ensure America succeeds in the world.