Today President George W. Bush announced the recipients of the Nation's highest honor for science and technology, naming the recipients of the 2004 National Medal of Science and National Medal of Technology.
The National Medal of Science honors individuals for pioneering scientific research in a range of fields, including physical, biological, mathematical, social, behavioral, and engineering sciences, that enhances our understanding of the world and leads to innovations and technologies that give the United State s its global economic edge. The National Science Foundation administers the award, which was established by the Congress in 1959. For more information about the National Medal of Science visit 
.
The National Medal of Technology honors individuals who embody the spirit of American innovation and who have advanced the Nation's global competitiveness. Their vision and accomplishments have helped commercialize new technologies, create jobs, improve American productivity, and stimulate the Nation's economic growth and development. This award, established by Congress in 1980, is administered by the Department of Commerce. For more information about the National Medal of Technology, visit 
.
:
Kenneth J. Arrow, Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA
Norman E. Borlaug, Texas A&M University - College Station, TX
Robert N. Clayton, University of Chicago - Chicago, IL
Edwin N. Lightfoot, University of Wisconsin-Madison - Madison, WI
Stephen J. Lippard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA
Phillip A. Sharp, Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA
Thomas E. Starzl, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine - Pittsburgh, PA
Dennis P. Sullivan, State University of New York at Stony Brook - Stony Brook, NY
:
Ralph H. Baer, Engineering Consultant - Manchester, NH
Roger L. Easton, RoBarCo - Canaan, NH
Gen-Probe Inc. (Division Award) - San Diego, Calif.
IBM-Microelectronics Division (Division Award) - Somers, NY
Industrial Light and Magic (Company Award) - San Rafael, CA
Motorola, Inc. (Company Award) - Schaumburg, IL
PACCAR Inc (Company Award) - Bellevue, WA