President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Michael Joseph Copps, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2010. Since 2001, Mr. Copps has served as Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development at the Department of Commerce, where he was previously Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Basic Industries. Earlier in his career, Mr. Copps served for over 12 years as Chief of Staff for Senator Ernest Hollings. He also served as Director of Government Affairs at Collins and Aikman. Mr. Copps received his bachelor's degree from Wofford College and his PhD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
The President intends to nominate Deborah Taylor Tate, of Tennessee, to be Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring June 30, 2007. Ms. Tate currently serves as Director of the Tennessee Regulatory Authority, during which time she also served for a one-year term as Chairman. In 2003, she was appointed to the Federal Communications Commission's Federal-State Joint Conference on Advanced Telecommunications Services. Prior to this, she served as Director of the State and Local Policy Center at Vanderbilt University. Earlier in her career, Ms. Tate served as an Assistant to Governor Don Sundquist and Assistant Legal Counsel to Governor Lamar Alexander. Ms. Tate received her bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.
The President intends to nominate Stephen C. King, of New York, to be a Member of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission at the Department of Justice, for a three-year term expiring September 30, 2008.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Representatives of the United States to the 60th Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Donald M. Payne of New Jersey
Edward Randall Royce of California
Goli Ameri of Oregon
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Alternate Representatives of the United States to the 60th Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Duane Acklie of Nebraska
Robert C. O'Brien of California