President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals, appoint four individuals and upon appointment, designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Mark Acton, of Kentucky, to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 14, 2010. Mr. Acton currently serves as Special Assistant to the Chairman for the United States Postal Rate Commission. Prior to this, he served as Staff Director for the Counsel's Office of the Republican National Committee. Mr. Acton received his bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville.
The President intends to nominate Kristie A. Kenney, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Philippines. Ms. Kenney, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, has most recently served as Ambassador to Ecuador. Prior to that, she served as Senior Advisor to the Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, Ms. Kenney served as Economic Counselor in Geneva, Switzerland, Economic Officer in Argentina and Consular Officer in Jamaica. Ms. Kenney received her bachelor's degree from Clemson University and her master's degree from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Robert Weisberg, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of the Congo. Mr. Weisberg, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Helsinki, Finland. Prior to this, he served as Counselor for Administrative Affairs in Jakarta, Indonesia; Caracas, Venezuela and Warsaw, Poland. Mr. Weisberg received his bachelor's degree from Haverford College, his JD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He later received his master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund; and to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund; and to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, for terms of four years.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee:
Jay I. Kislak, of Florida (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 25, 2008, and upon appointment re-designate Chairman
Nancy Clausen Wilkie, of Minnesota (Anthropology), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 25, 2008
James Wright Willis, of California (International Sales Expert), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring April 25, 2008