White House Conference Empowers Communities; Launches New Web-Based Guide
 More than 500 parents, civic leaders, faith-based and community service providers, foundations, educators, researchers, and experts in child development will gather to discuss various problems facing America's youth and solutions shown to be successful in overcoming those challenges.
 The new guide will assist community partnerships in their collaborative efforts to prioritize issues, identify existing resources, and fill gaps or unmet needs with effective programs.
 By identifying needs and available resources, community leaders can integrate existing Federal and local programs, as well as volunteer faith-based or community programs, to create seamless efforts serving local youth.
 The guide was developed by the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services, Justice, Education, Agriculture, Labor, Housing and Urban Development, and the Interior; the Office of National Drug Control Policy; and the Corporation for National and Community Service. Departmental contributors were chosen for their expertise in adolescent health, youth development, juvenile delinquency prevention, substance abuse prevention, mental health, and disabilities.
 In his 2005 State of the Union Address, the President announced "a broader outreach to at-risk youth, which involves parents and pastors, coaches and community leaders, in programs ranging from literacy to sports." He asked Laura Bush to lead this effort, which became known as Helping America's Youth.
 The President and Mrs. Bush believe parents and family are the first and most important influence in every child's life, providing a foundation of love and support. The President's FY 2006 budget supports families in many ways, including initiatives to promote healthy marriages and responsible fatherhood.
 Schools equip children with the knowledge and skills to be successful throughout their lives. The President's FY 2006 budget helps to ensure America's schools are producing results for every child in America and includes initiatives focused on at-risk youth. For example, the President's Striving Readers initiative focuses on improving the reading skills of middle and high school students who read below grade level.
 A loving, caring adult - including parents, teachers, coaches, pastors, rabbis, and mentors - is a critical influence in a child's life. The needs of at-risk youth are best addressed when communities work in partnership with parents and families, government, schools, and faith-based and community groups. The President's FY 2006 budget supports communities in many ways, including an additional $50 million for mentoring the children of prisoners and a multi-year $150 million initiative to help youth at risk of gang influence and involvement. These initiatives will help children find the support they need to succeed and provide them with positive role models.