[
:]
 
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 We should strive to keep marginal tax rates on America's families and businesses no higher than those imposed by our major global competitors. We should end tax penalties against saving and investment, and promote fairness and simplicity by ending special interest loopholes and lowering tax rates for all Americans.
 As Governor of Massachusetts, he turned a $250 million retroactive capital gains tax increase into a $250 million refund, made the investment tax credit permanent, passed sales tax holidays, gave property tax breaks to seniors, and in each of his last three years in office, submitted a budget that cut the income tax.
 Washington has been on an explosive spending binge. Governor Romney has proposed three initiatives to cut spending: vetoing appropriations bills that exceed spending targets; giving the president line-item veto power; and reviewing each individual federal program to eliminate bureaucracy and waste. Governor Romney has a strong record of fiscal discipline turning a $3 billion budget gap into a $1 billion surplus.
 We need to enact tort reforms that will lower U.S. tort costs, help business grow, allow companies to spend more on research and development, while at the same time protect the legitimate interests of consumers. We must make the system fairer and more predictable for both business and individuals. And we must do it at the federal level with national reforms.
 Democrats want to deny workers the right to make the decision on whether to unionize by secret ballot and mandate that unionization be allowed by a "card check" system. We oppose taking away workers' rights to a secret ballot.
 Too often politicians in Washington do not consider the real world negative economic effects of the many regulatory weeds that choke off economic growth. One of these regulations that must be pruned is Sarbanes-Oxley.
 The American people should be able to exercise their First Amendment rights without having to first think about hiring a lawyer. America has a rich history of protecting speech. But the McCain-Feingold law is having a chilling effect on grassroots advocacy.
 Governor Romney's number one economic priority will be to grow the economy - helping to create good jobs, raise incomes and preserve American strength. He will work to rein in excessive government spending and reform entitlements. To ensure America's continued economic growth, he will fight to cut taxes - the Death Tax, savings taxes, corporate taxes and marginal tax rates.
Governor Romney will also promote trade, bring market forces to bear in health care, pursue national tort and liability reform, eliminate excessive regulations that put a burden on our economy and strengthen American families.