 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Rick Adkins, Kathy Bigham and Paul Thurmond have joined his South Carolina campaign as Statewide Grassroots Co-Chairs. Together, they will help to further develop and build Governor Romney's grassroots operation in the Palmetto State.
"I am very pleased to welcome these talented Republican leaders to my South Carolina campaign effort," said Governor Romney. "With primary day fast approaching, their dedication and hard work will help me to communicate my optimistic vision for America's future to every corner of the state."
Governor Romney also released an expanded list of his South Carolina County Chairs (complete list below).
 A real estate professional, Adkins is a veteran of South Carolina politics. He served as the 2002 County Chairman for Peeler for Governor, as the County Chairman for Bush-Cheney 2004 and as a delegate to the 2004 Republican National Convention. He chairs the Anderson County Republican Party as well as the Anderson Interfaith Ministries. He is also a member of the State Board of Education. A graduate of Clemson University, he and his wife, Teresa, have three children.
 A graduate of Winthrop University, Bigham is president of Thursdays Too restaurant in Rock Hill. A member of the Clinton Junior College Advisory Board, she has served on the Winthrop Eagle Club's Board of Directors, the Wachovia Bank Advisory Board and Rock Hill Chamber of Commerce's Board of Directors. She has served as an executive committee member for the Carolinas Billy Graham Crusade, as co-chair for the Changing South Carolina to fight video poker, and as a member of the Bush for President South Carolina Steering Committee. She and her husband, Larry, have two children and three grandchildren.
 A member of the County Council since 2007, Thurmond brings a fiscally conservative viewpoint to issues such as criminal justice, infrastructure improvement and planning for growth. A former Assistant Solicitor with the 9th Circuit Solicitor's Office, he is a partner and shareholder at Thurmond Kirchner & Timbes, P.A. A graduate of the University of South Carolina Law School, he and his wife, Katie, have one son.
 Larry Courtney, Chesterfield County


 Betty Cox, Florence County


 Orey Middleton, Hampton County


 Kathy Stedman, Marion County

June Cannon

Rick Osbon

Betty Ryberg

Julie Strong

Jane Jones

Susan Rhoden

Dan Ross
Beaufort County

Bob Holtzmacher

Cheryl Ludlam

Senator Bill Mescher

Wayland Moody

Steve Querry

Bill Willcox

Richard Sweatt

Ruby Sweatt

Daniel Dukes

Councilman Henry Fishburne

Dr. Sam Swad

Tot Kennedy

Alex Stroman

Larry Courtney

Moye Graham

Joe Murrary
 Scott Anderson

Nevell Rogers

Tianna Keener

Elizabeth Miller

Frank Mauer

Coy Richardson

Betty Cox

Mary Tepper

Paul Hogan

Ricky Horne

Glen O'Connell

Dr. Robert Barnes

Marjorie Barnes

Councilman Joe Dill

Joe Haynes

James Gardner

Michelle Oxner

Randy Oxner

Orey Middleton

Representative Alan Clemmons

Keith Dubose

James D'Alessio

Sara Fleming

Al Simpson
 Patrick Garrison

Charlene Privette

Dr. Scott Andersen

Representative Nikki Haley

Representative Chip Huggins

Tim Miller

Representative Ted Pitts

Robert Schaeffer

Irby Schultz

Bill Shealy

Verona Shealy

Shirley Smith

Ottis Smith

Kathy Stedman

Mid Self

Margaret Brackett

Senator Ronnie Cromer

Betty Dominick

Alan Gardner

Charles Simmons

Steve Sokol

Roy Lindsey

Chester Palmer

Barbara Strickland

Senator Larry Martin

Johnathan Strange

Representative Nathan Ballentine

Denise Jones

Wanda Forbes

Grace Rentiers

Brandy Shealy

June Bond

Marlene Saad

Jimmy Byrd
 Les Anderson

Rod Benfield