"[Congress needs] to pass meaningful energy legislation as soon as possible, all aiming at making sure that we promote technologies that, for the sake of our national security and for the sake of good environmental policy … reduce the usage of gasoline. The goal I laid out of reducing gasoline by 20 percent over 10 years is a realistic goal. In other words, this isn't a pipe dream, this is something that our Nation can accomplish."
 The President viewed alternative fuel vehicles used by the U.S. Postal Service, FedEx, UPS, and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority ("Metro").
 The mission of the Clean Cities Program is to advance the Nation's economic, environmental, and energy security by supporting local decisions to adopt practices that contribute to the reduction of petroleum consumption. Clean Cities carries out this mission through a network of more than 80 volunteer coalitions, which develop public/private partnerships to promote alternative fuels and vehicles, fuel blends, fuel economy, hybrid vehicles, and idle reduction.
 As they use more alternative fuels, these entities help reduce our oil dependence, with the added benefit of lowering their business operating costs. Their commitment to using alternative fuels corresponds to the President's "
" goal of reducing America's gasoline consumption by 20 percent over the next ten years.
 To meet this goal we must make progress on two fronts:
 Energy-efficient hybrid and clean diesel vehicles offer the same features consumers desire but travel much further on a gallon of fuel than conventional vehicles. America's automakers are also working to develop "plug-in" hybrids that will use even less gasoline. These vehicles use advanced battery technology, such as lithium ion batteries, and could be recharged in a standard electrical outlet.
 Today there are around 5 million flex fuel vehicles (FFV) on the road. These vehicles can run on gasoline or E85, an alternative fuel that is 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. There are more than 1,000 E85 pumps across the country today.
 Scientists and engineers have made great progress on alternative fuels like biodiesel and ethanol.Our Nation is now on the threshold of dramatic breakthroughs, such as new ways of producing cellulosic ethanol from wood chips, grasses, and agricultural wastes.
 As we continue to diversify our fuel supply, we must step up domestic oil production in environmentally sensitive ways.
 We must double the current capacity of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to further protect America against severe disruptions to the world's oil supply.
 In addition to diversifying our transportation fuels, we are changing how America generates electricity by investing Federal resources in clean-coal technology, wind and solar energy, and clean, safe nuclear power. All of these technologies will significantly help reduce greenhouse gases and air pollution.