 – Following last week's announcement of his plan to halt global warming and create a new energy economy, Senator John Edwards today released the details of his plan to burn coal cleanly and store its carbon dioxide emissions safely. Edwards called for an end to the construction of any new coal-burning power plants that lack the technology needed to capture their carbon dioxide emissions.
"Global warming is not an issue for the future," said Edwards. "It is a crisis that demands action from us today. We have the chance to create an energy revolution in our country, but if we're going to have that happen, we have to be willing to take action now. We need to be smart and responsible about how we use coal, so we can leave our children and grandchildren a safer and cleaner planet."
While Edwards' energy plan calls for investing in renewable energy and efficiency, he understands that the U.S. is likely to rely on coal for its energy needs for decades or even centuries. Coal-fired power plants generate more than half of our electricity, but cause a third of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions. Utility companies are planning to build more than 150 coal-fired power plants in the next 25 years.
Edwards believes we need to find a way to use coal without heating the planet. As president, Edwards will require that all new coal-fired plants be built with the required technology to capture their carbon dioxide emissions, so plants built today will be able to permanently and safely store their carbon emissions tomorrow. He also committed to investing $1 billion a year in research and testing to jumpstart the means to store large amounts of carbon dioxide safely underground.
In order to halt global warming, Edwards last week called for a dramatic reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. Edwards' plan would cap greenhouse gas pollution starting in 2010, and reduce it by 15 percent by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050, as the latest science says is needed to avoid the worst impacts of global warming. Edwards also proposed major investments in renewable energy and laid out ways to help Americans conserve energy.
For more information, please see the fact sheet below.
"The future is determined by the choices we make today. We can transform this economy, help American businesses lead the world, and take responsibility for protecting this earth. But if we don't seize the moment, it will be too late." -- John Edwards
Our generation must be the one that achieves energy independence. We need independence from unstable and hostile areas of the world, from global warming pollution, and from the old ways of business. With American ingenuity, we can emerge from the crisis of global warming with a new energy economy that stimulates innovation, brings the family farm back to life, and creates more than 1 million jobs in America's farms and industries.
Last week, John Edwards proposed an ambitious plan to cut global warming pollution by 80 percent by 2050, invest in renewable energy, and use energy efficiency to meet growth in the demand for electricity. Today, he announced his plan to burn coal cleanly and store its emissions safely.
Coal is a major source of power in the United States, where it generates half of electricity. The U.S. and the rest of the world is likely to rely on coal for its energy needs for decades or longer. As used today, however, coal-fired power plants cause a third of U.S. carbon dioxide emissions and result in a hotter planet. Moreover, power companies are planning to build more than 150 coal-fired power plants in the next 25 years, a step that could lock in large increases in carbon dioxide emissions. [NRDC, 2007; Time, 10/2/2007; News and Observer, 10/23/2006]
While making large investments in renewable energy and efficiency, Edwards believes that America must also change how it uses its coal. Today, he called for an end to the construction of any new coal-burning power plants that lack the technology needed to capture their carbon dioxide emissions. Second, Edwards will jumpstart the means to store large amounts of carbon dioxide safely underground by investing a historic $1 billion a year in research and testing. He will also strengthen mine safety laws to ensure that coal is safe at every stage of the production process.
Utilities are planning to build more than 150 coal-fired power plants in the next 25 years. These plants will last for 60 years. Most will use conventional coal combustion technology that results in substantial greenhouse gas pollution and is difficult to retrofit as technology advances. As a result, the plants could lock in a huge stream of carbon dioxide pollution over their lifetimes, as much as 1.1 billion tons a year by 2030. However, there are alternatives. Coal gasification, a precursor to carbon capture technology, is already operational in Tampa and Indiana. Two large power companies, TXU and American Electric Power, recently announced plans to build experimental plants that can capture carbon dioxide. Some companies, including oil companies, have experience pumping it underground. [News and Observer, 10/23/ 2006; NRDC, 2007; Nat'l Energy Tech. Library, 2007; NYT, 3/15/2007 and 3/17/2007; McFarland, Herzog, & Jacoby, 2007]
John Edwards has outlined an aggressive plan to use energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy to reduce American reliance on foreign oil and cut greenhouse gas pollution. However, because coal will play a major role in meeting U.S. and worldwide energy needs for decades to come, Edwards believes that the U.S. must take the lead in finding ways to use coal without warming the planet. He will:
Last week, John Edwards called for America to embrace three great goals for this generation: