 – As part of his efforts to combat global warming, Senator John Edwards announced today that he will make his campaign "carbon neutral." Edwards believes global warming is one of the great challenges facing America and the world and that we can all take immediate action to decrease the amount of carbon we produce. By conserving energy and purchasing carbon offsets, the Edwards campaign will offset the carbon emitted by Edwards and his staff's campaign travel, and the energy used in his campaign headquarters and field offices.
"Global warming is an emergency and we can't wait until the next president is elected to take action," said Edwards. "Each of us can take responsibility in small ways to make a big difference. I encourage all Americans to conserve energy in their own homes and workplaces and help fight global warming."
In February, Governor Tom Vilsack announced he would be the first presidential candidate to plan a carbon neutral campaign. Edwards shares his commitment to protecting our environment and reducing our carbon footprint. The campaign and its landlord have taken the following steps to conserve energy:
After conserving energy, the campaign will purchase carbon offsets to make it carbon neutral. Carbon offsets allow one party to pay another to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide. Edwards will also financially support renewable energy projects to make them commercially viable and reduce the need for carbon-based energy.
For more information, please see the fact sheet below.
Man-made greenhouse gas pollution has already made the planet 1.5 degrees hotter and the planet's temperature is rising faster and faster. Political campaigns—like other forms of modern life—contribute to global warming by using carbon-based energy in their travel, heating, and electricity.
John Edwards believes that the U.S. should take immediate action to halt global warming. However, American families and communities can act while their government fails to act. Today, Edwards announced that he will make his campaign "carbon neutral," eliminating its impact on global warming, by taking energy efficiency steps and supporting renewable energy.

Global warming affects everyone and we all have to take responsibility to stop the crisis. There are easy, simple steps everyone can take in their homes and offices to use energy more efficiently. The John Edwards for President campaign and its landlord are conserving energy by:
Edwards has also encouraged his community of supporters to get involved in the fight against global warming. On January 27th, 2007, the campaign and its volunteers organized a One Corps National Day of Energy Action. Hundreds of local One Corps chapters worked together on community service activities including weatherizing homes and distributing energy-efficient compact fluorescent bulbs.

After conserving energy, the Edwards campaign will purchase carbon offsets to make it carbon neutral. Edwards' support will help make new renewable energy projects commercially viable, reducing the need for carbon-based energy. He will offset the carbon emissions emitted by his and his staff's campaign travel and the energy used in his campaign headquarters and field offices.
Edwards will work with NativeEnergy to calculate the carbon impact of his campaign activities and purchase carbon offsets. Governor Tom Vilsack—the first presidential candidate to plan a carbon neutral campaign—also worked with NativeEnergy. The company supports renewable energy projects, including wind and family farm methane projects. The result is sustainable economic benefits and lower greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at 
.