

 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the members of the New Hampshire Leadership Team. Bruce Keough will serve as State Chair and will be joined by Co-Chairs Gordon MacDonald and Donna Sytek. Governor Romney also announced the County Chairs for each New Hampshire county.
"I am honored to announce these distinguished men and women as members of my New Hampshire Leadership Team. Each of these Republicans shares my vision of a stronger and more prosperous America," said Governor Romney. "Together, we will continue to expand the impressive team we already have on the ground in New Hampshire."
Ahead of Governor Romney's visit to New Hampshire today, State Chair Bruce Keough said, "From watching Governor Romney at work in Massachusetts, it is clear he shares New Hampshire's values. His belief and record in fighting for small government and low taxes will resonate with the people of this state. I am proud to be a part of this team and helping to represent Governor Romney in New Hampshire."


 A successful businessman, former State Senator, and candidate for Governor in the 2002 Republican primary, Keough was the New Hampshire Vice Chairman of President Bush's 2004 Presidential re-election campaign.
 A Manchester attorney, MacDonald spent eight years on the staff of former U.S. Senator Gordon J. Humphrey (R-NH) in Washington, D.C., serving as Humphrey's Chief of Staff and Legislative Director. He has directed several statewide political campaigns in New Hampshire, and served as legal counsel to the New Hampshire Republican State Committee.
 A former Speaker of the New Hampshire House and Chair of the New Hampshire Republican Party, Sytek served as a State Representative from Salem for 23 years. She has been a delegate to four Republican National Conventions and was Chairman of the National Republican Legislators Association.



Sheriff Dan Collis

Beverly Bruce

Tom Dewhurst

State Representative Betsey Patten

County Attorney Peter Heed

Fred Parker

Berlin City Councilor Tim Donovan

County Commissioner Bing Judd

Colebrook Selectman Benoit Lamontagne

John Boyle
 Claira Monier

County Commissioner Toni Pappas

Liz Feren

Franklin City Councilor Ken Merrifield

Judy Galluzzo

Sheriff Dan Linehan

County Attorney Jim Reams

Christopher Wolfe
 Barbara Russell

Paul Smith

Elaine Tinetti

Ernie Bridge

State Representative Beverly Rodeschin