Mrs. Elizabeth Boritt
Mr. Daniel Boritt
The Honorable William Burck, Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary, Office of the Staff Secretary
Ms. Aimee Violette
Mr. Alfred Butler, General Manager, Ford's Theatre
Ms. Melissa Carson, Executive Assistant, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Mrs. Marian Carson
Ms. Meghan Clyne, Speechwriter, Office of Mrs. Bush
Mr. Alan Hanson
The Honorable Deb Fiddelke, Deputy Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs, White Office of Legislative Affairs
Mr. Brian Thomas, Chief of Staff, Office of Congressman Kenny Marchant
Ms. Kristin Fox-Siegmund, Associate Producer-Production, Ford's Theatre
The Honorable Timothy Goeglein, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Public Liaison
Mrs. Jennifer Goeglein
The Honorable Cherie Harder, Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Director of Projects for the First Lady, Office of the First Lady
Mr. Frank R. Jimenez
Mr. Jonathan Horn, Speechwriter, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Mrs. Caroline Horn
Ms. Jennifer Kiefer, Associate Director of Development, Special Events, Ford's Theatre
Ms. Heather Lady, Ford's Theatre
Ms. Collin Levey, Speechwriter, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Mr. Andrew Levey
Mr. David Mackay, Senior Vice President, Integrated Marketing Communications, Fleishman Hillard
Mr. Danny Maiello, Fleishman-Hillard, Inc.
Ms. Erika Dimmler, CNN
The Honorable William McGurn, Assistant to the President for Speechwriting, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Mrs. Julie McGurn
The Honorable Chris Michel, Special Assistant to the President for Speechwriting, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Ms. Emily Kropp, Executive Assistant, Office of the Chief of Staff
Mr. Mark Ramont, Associate Producer - Artistic, Ford's Theater
The Honorable Matthew Robinson, Special Assistant to the President for Speechwriting, Office of Presidential Speechwriting
Ms. Erin M. Zona
The Honorable Jane DeGraff Sloat, Member, Ford's Theater Board of Trustees, Board of Trustee Member, The Washington Opera
Mr. Charles Ritchie
Judge Tommy Turner, Member, Lincoln Bicentennial Commission and Judge, LaRue County Courthouse
Mrs. Camille Turner