 Americans are fortunate to have the most advanced and innovative health care system in the world. The President's plan will make private health insurance more affordable and increase the number of Americans with health insurance. The plan will also help our Nation move away from reliance on government-run health care and toward a system in which Americans have better access to basic, affordable private insurance, and increased ownership of their medical decisions.
 The President's proposed standard deduction for health insurance will help make basic private health insurance more affordable for families and individuals – whether they have insurance through their jobs or purchase insurance on their own. For those who remain unable to afford coverage, the President's Affordable Choices Initiative will help eligible States assist their poor and hard-to-insure citizens in purchasing private health insurance.
 Those who buy insurance on their own pay higher taxes for insurance than those who can get it through their job. The self-employed pay no income taxes on their premiums, but because they still owe payroll taxes, they are also disadvantaged compared to those who get health insurance from their employer. No one should have to pay higher taxes just because they do not work for an employer that provides health insurance. Under the current system, those without employer-provided health insurance – including the unemployed, retirees without retiree coverage, and workers at companies that do not offer health insurance (most of which are small businesses) – may have to pay substantially more for health insurance than those with employer-provided plans, a cost which many cannot afford.
 The more expensive the health insurance plan you receive through your employer, the more tax relief you get. This encourages many workers to choose lower wages and more expensive health insurance than they would choose if the tax code were not distorting their decision. One result is that insurance premiums rise, and many Americans cannot afford the coverage they need. Each family and worker should choose the balance of wages and health insurance that is right for them, without the tax code distorting their decisions.
 The President proposes a standard tax deduction for health insurance (from income and payroll taxes) for every family and individual who has a private health insurance policy, regardless of the policy's cost or whether the policy was purchased individually or through an employer.
 Our current system distorts people's decisions about how best to spend their income. This leads to higher health spending and lower-value care. The President's plan would lower the growth in national health care spending right away, and decrease spending even more in the long run with increased competition and the development of new cost-effective technologies.
 The amount of the standard deduction will increase by the Consumer Price Index each year.
 Governors across the Nation have put forward plans to make basic private health insurance more accessible for their citizens. The President has directed Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Mike Leavitt to work with Governors and the Congress to make basic private health insurance available, and to help States pay private health insurance premiums for the poor and the hard to insure.
 States that provide their citizens access to basic, private insurance at an affordable price would be eligible for funds under the Affordable Choices Initiative. The Secretary of HHS would be able to redirect Federal payments away from institutions and to needy individuals in eligible States. These grants would allow States to help low-income individuals purchase private health insurance.
 The Federal government now pays many of the health care bills of the uninsured through a complex mix of subsidies and payments to health care providers, with the result that billions of taxpayer dollars are spent inefficiently. The health care system needs to be transformed in a way that avoids costly and unnecessary medical visits and emphasizes upfront, affordable private health insurance options. Americans should "own" their own health plan, and money should follow the person rather than the institution.
 State participation would be voluntary, and States would design their own programs, subject to approval by the Secretary of HHS.
 For the elderly, disabled, low-income pregnant mothers, and children needing protection, the Federal government provides coverage through Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP – the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Under this Administration, 2 million more children have gained coverage through SCHIP.
 He has directed Federal agencies to share information with beneficiaries about prices paid to health care providers for procedures and about the quality of services provided by doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers. Increased transparency about prices and quality will help bring more competition to health care, restraining its rising costs.
 Electronic health records reduce costs and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of medical treatment. In 2004, the President launched an initiative to make electronic health records available to most Americans within the next 10 years. Last year, he directed Federal agencies to use improved health IT systems to facilitate the rapid exchange of health information.
 HSAs allow people to save money for health care tax-free, and to take these accounts with them if they move from job to job. In December, the President signed legislation to bring HSAs within the reach of more Americans.
 Small businesses, as well as civic and community groups, should be allowed to band together in AHPs to get the same discounts big companies receive.
 Americans should be allowed to buy the best health insurance for themselves, based on their own circumstances, instead of being limited to only the policies available in their State.
 These lawsuits are wasting scarce resources, increasing health care costs, and driving doctors out of business.
 Living a healthier life dramatically reduces illness and disease. The President encourages all Americans to lead a healthy lifestyle to prevent disease and improve their overall quality of life.