John Preston Bailey, of West Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of West Virginia, Vice Frederick P. Stamp, Jr., retired.
Valerie L. Baker, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Consuelo B. Marshall, retired.
Vanessa Lynne Bryant, of Connecticut, to be United States District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Dominic J. Squatrito, retired.
Carol A. Dalton, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice A. Noel Anketell Kramer, elevated.
Mary O. Donohue, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Frederick J. Scullin, Jr., retired.
Thomas Alvin Farr, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice Malcolm J. Howard, retired.
Nora Barry Fischer, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Pennsylvania, vice Robert J. Cindrich, resigned.
Dabney Langhorne Friedrich, of Virginia, to be a Member of the United States Sentencing Commission for the remainder of the term expiring October 31, 2009, vice Michael O'Neill, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Gregory Kent Frizzell, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice Sven E. Holmes, resigned.
Philip S. Gutierrez, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Terry J. Hatter, Jr., retired.
Thomas M. Hardiman, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Richard L. Nygaard, retired.
Marcia Morales Howard, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Harvey E. Schlesinger, retired.
Beryl A. Howell, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the United States Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2011 (Reappointment), to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
John Alfred Jarvey, of Iowa, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Ronald E. Longstaff, retired.
Frederick J. Kapala, of Illinois, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, vice Philip G. Reinhard, retiring.
Peter D. Keisler, of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice John G. Roberts, Jr., elevated.
Sara Elizabeth Lioi, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice Lesley Brooks Wells, retired.
Debra Ann Livingston, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice John M. Walker, Jr., retired.
Roslynn Renee Mauskopf, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice David G. Trager, retired.
Liam O'Grady, of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Claude M. Hilton, retired.
Lawrence Joseph O'Neill, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of California, vice Oliver W. Wanger, retired.
William Lindsay Osteen, Jr., of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina, vice William L. Osteen, Sr., retired.
Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice David C. Bramlette, retired.
Heidi M. Pasichow, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Anna Blackburne-Rigsby, elevated.
Martin Karl Reidinger, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, vice Graham C. Mullen, retired.
James Edward Rogan, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Nora M. Manella, resigned.
Thomas D. Schroeder, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of North Carolina, vice Frank W. Bullock, Jr., retired.
Benjamin Hale Settle, of Washington, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Washington, vice Franklin D. Burgess, retired.
Norman Randy Smith, of Idaho, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Stephen S. Trott, retired.
John R. Steer, of Virginia, to be a Member of the United States Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2011 (Reappointment), to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Lisa Godbey Wood, of Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Georgia, vice Dudley H. Bowen, Jr., retired.
Otis D. Wright, II, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Gary L. Taylor, retired.
George H. Wu, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Ronald S. W. Lew, retired.