Katherine Almquist, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Lloyd O. Pierson, resigned.
Carl Joseph Artman, of Colorado, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice David Wayne Anderson.
Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be Commissioner of Social Security for a term expiring January 19, 2013, vice Jo Anne Barnhart.
Alex A. Beehler, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Nikki Rush Tinsley, resigned.
Warren Bell, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2012, vice Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Wayne Cartwright Beyer, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years expiring July 1, 2010, vice Othoniel Armendariz, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Andrew G. Biggs, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2013, vice James B. Lockhart III.
Anita K. Blair, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Michael L. Dominguez.
Steven G. Bradbury, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Jack Landman Goldsmith III, resigned.
Michael J. Burns, of New Mexico, to be Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Nuclear and Chemical and Biological Defense Programs, vice Dale Klein, resigned.
Gregory B. Cade, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the United States Fire Administration, Department of Homeland Security, vice R. David Paulison, resigned.
Curtis S. Chin, of New York, to be United States Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Paul William Speltz.
Peter E. Cianchette, of Maine, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2010, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired.
John Ray Correll, of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, vice Jeffrey D. Jarrett.
Paul DeCamp, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice Tammy Dee McCutchen, resigned.
Susan E. Dudley, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice John D. Graham, resigned.
Michael F. Duffy, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2012. (Reappointment)
Sam Fox, of Missouri, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belgium.
C. Boyden Gray, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Union, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Floyd Hall, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Amy M. Rosen, term expired.
Thomas E. Harvey, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Congressional Affairs), vice Pamela M. Iovino, resigned.
Richard Allan Hill, of Montana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring June 10, 2009, vice Juanita Sims Doty, term expired.
D. Jeffrey Hirschberg, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2007. (Reappointment)
Richard E. Hoagland, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia.
Arlene Holen, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2010, vice Robert H. Beatty, Jr., term expired.
Caroline C. Hunter, of Florida, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission for a term expiring December 12, 2009, vice Paul S. DeGregorio, term expired.
Scott A. Keller, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Steven B. Nesmith, resigned.
Peter N. Kirsanow, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring August 27, 2008, vice Ronald E. Meisburg.
Kevin M. Kolevar, of Michigan, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability), vice John S. Shaw, resigned.
James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Frederick W. Schieck.
Robert D. Lenhard, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2011, vice Danny Lee McDonald, term expired.
Margrethe Lundsager, of Virginia, to be United States Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund for a term of two years, vice Nancy P. Jacklin, term expired.
Jane C. Luxton, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice James R. Mahoney.
Roger Romulus Martella, Jr., of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Ann R. Klee, resigned.
David M. Mason, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2009. (Reappointment)
Patricia Mathes, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2007, vice Mark G. Yudof, resigned.
Andrew J. McKenna, Jr., of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years, vice Robert N. Shamansky, term expired.
Mark McKinnon, of Texas, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2009, vice Fayza Veronique Boulad Rodman, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
William W. Mercer, of Montana, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Robert D. McCallum, Jr.
Daniel Meron, of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department of Health and Human Services, vice Alex Azar II.
Hector E. Morales, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2010, vice Jose A. Fourquet, resigned.
Julie L. Myers, of Kansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice Michael J. Garcia.
James F. X. O'Gara, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Barry D. Crane.
David Palmer, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2011, vice Cari M. Dominguez, term expired.
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
John L. Palmer, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Stanley Davis Phillips, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia.
Dean A. Pinkert, of Virginia, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring December 16, 2015, vice Jennifer Anne Hillman, term expired.
John A. Rizzo, of the District of Columbia, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency, vice Scott W. Muller, resigned.
Rosemary E. Rodriguez, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Election Assistance Commission for the remainder of the term expiring December 12, 2007, vice Raymundo Martinez, III, resigned.
Ellen R. Sauerbrey, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Arthur E. Dewey, resigned.
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Thomas R. Saving, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years. (Reappointment)
Leon R. Sequeira, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Veronica Vargas Stidvent.
Ron Silver, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2009, vice Stephen D. Krasner, term expired.
Charles Darwin Snelling, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority for a term expiring May 30, 2012. (Reappointment)
Enrique J. Sosa, of Florida, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Linwood Holton, term expired.
Richard Stickler, of West Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice David D. Lauriski, resigned.
Michael W. Tankersley, of Texas, to be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank. (New Position)
Judy Van Rest, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2009, vice Daniel Pipes.
Hans von Spakovsky, of Georgia, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2011, vice Bradley A. Smith, resigned.
Dennis P. Walsh, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of five years expiring December 16, 2009. (Reappointment)
Steven T. Walther, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2009, vice Scott E. Thomas, term expired.
William Ludwig Wehrum, Jr., of Tennessee, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Jeffrey R. Holmstead, resigned.
Catherine G. West, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2008, vice Karen Hastie Williams, term expired.
Ellen C. Williams, of Kentucky, to be a Governor of the United States Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2016. (Reappointment).
Irving A. Williamson, of New York, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring June 16, 2014, vice Stephen Koplan, term expired.