 The President discussed the global and domestic response to HIV/AIDS at a roundtable discussion with Mrs. Laura Bush, Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Michael Leavitt, U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator Mark Dybul, and community leaders from the United States and Africa. This World AIDS Day, the U.S. Government is highlighting "The Promise of Partnerships."
 PEPFAR is the largest international health initiative dedicated to a single disease. PEPFAR works worldwide, but targets 15 focus countries that are home to approximately half of the world's 39 million HIV-positive people: Botswana, Cote d'Ivoire, Ethiopia, Guyana, Haiti, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam, and Zambia.
 This is taking place through bilateral programs in PEPFAR's 15 focus countries in sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean. Of the 822,000 individuals receiving treatment through PEPFAR, 61 percent are women and 9 percent are children age 14 and under.
 In addition to the ABC (Abstain, Be faithful, and the correct and consistent use of Condoms) approach, the U.S. supports programs that focus on prevention of mother-to-child transmission, on blood safety and safe medical injections, on intravenous drug users, on HIV-discordant couples, on alcohol abuse, and on other key issues, including gender-specific programs.
 President Bush made the Fund's founding contribution, and the United States has pledged almost $2 billion through 2008 – far more than any other nation.
 Of the approximately 40,000 new transmissions occurring annually in the United States, about half are spread by individuals unaware they are infecting others. The number of AIDS cases is especially high in the African-American, Hispanic, and gay communities, as well as among intravenous drug users and prisoners.
 The President considers the participation of people living with HIV/AIDS a critical element in the global HIV/AIDS response. A 1993 law prohibits HIV-positive people from receiving visas to visit the United States without a waiver. A categorical waiver would enable HIV-positive people to enter the United States for short visits through a streamlined process.