 RUSSERT: "One of the things they say is you keep saying that the level of violence against American troops was a secret. They say a public report was given to the American people, which demonstrated – said just that." WOODWARD: "After I took the secret document, which I have here, I mean, I hate to show secret documents on television, but I guess I'll have to. Why was this document secret?" RUSSERT: "When did you show that to the administration?" WOODWARD: "In May, June, and then, couple of months later, the exact information was made public. They knew I had it. Now, I mean, just look at what that shows. If that was – that's what's called a pattern, increased violence. It even has gone up in the last couple of months. That's the reality. 
." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 10/8/06)
 The Pentagon's public report showed increasing attacks by terrorists in Iraq. In fact, the same chart cited by Woodward was in the May report, and that report also said violence was at an all-time high. (Department Of Defense, Report To Congress, "Measuring Stability And Security In Iraq," 5/2006, Available At: 
, Accessed 10/4/06)
 Woodward confuses how the Pentagon's public 9010 report defines our opposition in Iraq. Woodward inaccurately claims the public report defined "Iraqi rejectionists" as "former regime loyalists, Saddamists, and terrorists, including al Qaeda." (Bob Woodward, 
, 2006)
 The 9010 Report said, for example: "Anti-government and anti-Coalition violence in Iraq derives from many separate elements, including Iraqi Rejectionists, former regime loyalists (including Saddamists), and terrorists, such as Al-Qaida in Iraq… Each of these groups has divergent and often incompatible goals; … Therefore, 
."
 Rejectionists are mostly ordinary Sunni Arabs who have not embraced the shift from Saddam's tyranny to a democratic Iraq. Unlike terrorists who must be killed or captured, "we judge that over time many in this group will increasingly support a democratic Iraq provided that the federal government protects minority rights and the legitimate interests of all communities." (National Security Council, National Strategy For Victory In Iraq, 11/30/05, Available At: 
, Accessed 10/4/06)
 It is accurate and consistent to note that terrorists and insurgents will "retain the capabilities" to "sustain violence levels through 2007," but that "appeal and motivation for rejectionist elements will wane in 2007" as the political process consolidates with full Sunni participation.
 RUSSERT: "They say the President in May and throughout the year has always said Iraq is difficult, going to be more difficult. Saying exactly..." WOODWARD: "But, but, but he didn't say that. He said it's hard, everyone knows it's hard, but he said the terrorists are in retreat." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 10/8/06)
 "Of the groups described above, terrorists and foreign fighters posed the most serious and immediate threat during this reporting period. Although the overall level of support to terrorists and foreign fighters among Iraqis is apparently declining, Al-Qaida in Iraq (AQI), which is suspected of conducting the attack on the Golden Mosque in Samarra and of escalating violence between Sunni and Shi'a, remains intent on instigating civil war to derail the Iraqi government. Although AQI has been unsuccessful in driving Iraq to civil war, Sunni and Shi'a Arab reprisals elevated the level of violence throughout this period."
 Far from hiding an increasing trend in violence, the report notes that "overall, average weekly attacks during [this] period were higher than any of the previous periods."
 THE PRESIDENT: "Our nation has been through three difficult years in Iraq. And the way forward will bring more days of challenge and loss." (President Bush, Remarks, Chicago, IL, 5/22/06)
 (President Bush, Remarks, Chicago, IL, 5/22/06)
 (President Bush, Address To The Nation, Washington, DC, 12/18/05)