 This growth follows the addition of 188,000 jobs in August. The economy has created more than 1.7 million jobs over the past 12 months. Since August 2003, more than 6.6 million jobs have been created more jobs than all the other major industrialized countries combined. This is 810,000 more jobs than previously estimated. Our economy has now added jobs for 37 straight months.
 The U.S. economy has proven resilient and responsive, growing 3.7 percent per year over the past three years and adding more than 6.6 million jobs since August 2003, despite numerous challenges including the burst of the dot com bubble, corporate scandals, recession, the terrorist attacks of 9/11, and the most costly natural disaster in American history.
 The President wants to develop technology to create new sources of fuel, build a reliable domestic supply of alternative fuels, and develop new domestic energy resources. The President is also encouraging the research and development of clean-coal technologies and expanding the safe use of clean, affordable nuclear power.
 The President worked with Congress to create the Medicare Prescription Drug benefit and he has implemented reforms to speed cheaper generic drugs to market. The President has proposed expanding Health Savings Accounts and creating Association Health Plans to allow small businesses to band together to buy cheaper insurance.
 President Bush's tax cuts have put more money in the hands of American workers, families, and businesses. To keep the American economy strong and growing, the President and Republicans in Congress want to make these tax cuts permanent.
 Paychecks are rising, but until recently large and unanticipated increases in energy prices consumed much of the wage growth. As gas prices continue to fall, many workers will feel greater benefits from rising real wages.
 Housing starts are still at a very high level 1.7 million starts per year is well above the 1.4 million average per year during the 1990s. Homeownership among all Americans, including minorities, is still near record levels.