President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint eleven people and designate one person to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to appoint Laura L. Rogers, of California, to be Director of the Office of Sex Offender Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking at the Department of Justice. Ms. Rogers currently serves as Director of the National Institute for Training Child Abuse Professionals. Prior to this, she served as a Senior Attorney of the National Center for Prosecution of Child Abuse at the American Prosecutor's Research Institute. Earlier in her career, she served as a Deputy District Attorney in the San Diego County District Attorney's Office. Ms. Rogers received her bachelor's degree from Santa Clara University and her JD from California Western School of Law.
The President intends to appoint Carlos Marin, of Texas, to be Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water Commission (United States and Mexico). Mr. Marin currently serves as Acting United States Commissioner of the International Boundary and Water Commission. Prior to this, he served as Principal Engineer of the United States and Mexico International Boundary and Water Commission. Earlier in his career, he served as Supervisory Civil Engineer of the Laredo/Nuevo Laredo Sanitation Project of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission. Mr. Marin received his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at El Paso.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Board of Advisors on Tribal Colleges and Universities:
Verna Fowler, of Wisconsin

Joseph George Hiller, of Arizona

Richard Dennis Stephens, of California

Edward K. Thomas, of Alaska
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities:
Belinda Childress Anderson, of Virginia

Delbert W. Baker, of Alabama

Brett Everett Fuller, of Virginia

Ivory V. Nelson, of Pennsylvania

Beverly Daniel Tatum, of Georgia
The President intends to designate Mary Beth Buchanan, of Pennsylvania, to be Designate Acting Director of the Office of Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice.