 One year after Hurricane Katrina, the Gulf Coast is rebuilding and the Nation is better prepared for future natural disasters. Commerce is returning to the region, and as rebuilding plans are firmed up, growth and progress will follow, and New Orleans will once again be a vibrant American city.
 Challenges still remain, including crime and housing needs.
 This funding is helping fulfill vital needs, including relocation, rental assistance, infrastructure repair, flood insurance payments, education, and debris removal.
 For example, Federal officials worked with State and local leaders to designate certain properties as health and safety hazards to enable the Federal government to fund debris removal from private property.
 The Corps has repaired and restored more than 220 miles of floodwalls and levees since September 2005. Pumping stations are being flood proofed, and levees and floodwalls are being armored at selective sites to protect against erosion. Floodgates have been added at the outfall canals to protect against storm surge, and the Administration has secured $20 million dollars to jumpstart the restoration of the wetlands surrounding the greater New Orleans area.
 All debris has been removed in Alabama and Texas, 96 percent of debris has been removed in Mississippi, and 72 percent of debris has been removed in Louisiana.
 In Louisiana and Mississippi, electricity has been restored to all customers who can safely receive it.
 The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is dramatically increasing the Nation's stockpiles of relief supplies, retooling FEMA, updating disaster plans, supporting State and local partners, and emphasizing individual and community preparedness.
 These supplies have the capacity to sustain 1 million people for one week.
180 truckloads
770 truckloads
+300%
1 truckload serves 10,000 people/day
600 truckloads
1,500 truckloads
+150%
1 truckload serves 5,000 people/day
430 truckloads
2,000+ truckloads
+400%
1 truckload serves 5,000 people/day
Approximately 4,000 employees
Approximately 8,000 employees
+100%
N/A
 The Report identifies deficiencies in the Federal government's response and lays the groundwork for better preparation for and response to future natural disasters.
 In addition to these private efforts, the Federal government's national service arms have contributed significantly. The Peace Corps sent 272 volunteers to assist FEMA, and the Corporation for National and Community Service has supported more than 35,000 national service members who have contributed more than 1.6 million hours and leveraged an additional 92,000 volunteers.