President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals and upon confirmation designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Nelson M. Ford, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management). Mr. Ford currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Financial Management and Comptroller of the Department of the Army. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Budgets and Financial Policy at the Department of Defense, and Chief Operating Officer at Georgetown University Medical Center. Mr. Ford received his bachelor's degree from Duke University and his master's degree from the University of Delaware.
The President intends to nominate Cynthia A. Glassman, of Virginia, to be Undersecretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs. Most recently, Dr. Glassman served as a Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Prior to this, she served as a Principal at Ernst and Young. Earlier in her career, she served twelve years at the Federal Reserve. Dr. Glassman received her bachelor's degree from Wellesley College. She went on to receive her master's degree and her PhD from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate John K. Veroneau, of Virginia, to be Deputy United States Trade Representative with the Rank of Ambassador. Mr. Veroneau currently serves as a Partner at DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary, LLP. Prior to this, he served as General Counsel of the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Earlier in his career, he was Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs at the Department of Defense. Mr. Veroneau received his bachelor's degree and his JD degree from the University of Maine.
The President intends to nominate Gerald Walpin, of New York, to be Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Mr. Walpin currently serves as Counsel at Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP. Prior to this, he served as Senior Partner at the firm's predecessor, Rosenman & Colin LLP, where he was Chairman of the Litigation Department. He previously served as President of the Federal Bar Council. Mr. Walpin received his bachelor's degree from City College of New York and his LLB from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate William H. Graves, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, for the remainder of a five year term expiring May 12, 2007.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Commissioners of the Mississippi River Commission:

  Brigadier General Bruce Arlan Berwick, USA, of Ohio
Brigadier General Robert Crear, USA, of Mississippi, and upon confirmation designate President.
Rear Admiral Samuel P. De Bow, Jr. of Pennsylvania
Brigadier General Gregg F. Martin, USA of New Hampshire