President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and upon confirmation designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Randolph James Clerihue, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Public Affairs. Mr. Clerihue currently serves as Assistant Executive Director for Communications and Public Affairs of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Prior to this, he served as Communications Director of the Health Insurance Association of America. Earlier in his career, he served as Press Secretary of the President's Commission to Strengthen Social Security. Mr. Clerihue received his bachelor's degree from Taylor University and his master's degree from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Susan E. Dudley, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the Office of Management and Budget. Ms. Dudley currently serves as Director of the Regulatory Studies Program of the Mercatus Center at George Mason University and Adjunct Professor at the George Mason University School of Law. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of the Natural Resources Branch of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. She also served as a Financial Consultant at the Environmental Protection Agency. Ms. Dudley received her bachelor's degree from the University of Massachusetts and her master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Michael F. Duffy, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission, for an additional six-year term expiring August 30, 2012, and upon confirmation, designate Chairman. Mr. Duffy has served as Chairman of the Commission since February 2003. Prior to this, he served as Deputy General Counsel of the National Mining Association. Earlier in his career, he served as Counsel to the Chairman of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Mr. Duffy received his bachelor's degree from Catholic University of America and received his JD from George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Roger Romulus Martella, Jr., of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (General Counsel). Mr. Martella currently serves as Principal Deputy General Counsel. Prior to this, he served as Principal Counsel for Complex Litigation for the Natural Resources section at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as an Associate Attorney at Sidley & Austin and also clerked for the Honorable David M. Ebel of the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. Mr. Martella received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his JD from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate Arthur K. Reilly, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the National Science Board (National Science Foundation), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2012.