 On this solemn anniversary, we rededicate ourselves to the cause of freedom.
 We saw courage in office workers who were trapped on the high floors of burning skyscrapers, passengers aboard Flight 93, and the Pentagon staff who made it out of the flames and smoke – and ran back in to answer cries for help.
 We have learned that our enemies are evil and kill without mercy, but not without purpose. They form a global network of extremists driven by a perverted vision of Islam, and their goal is building a radical Islamic empire.
 We face an enemy determined to bring death and suffering into our homes. The War on Terror is not over and will not be over until either we or the extremists emerge victorious. If we do not defeat these enemies now, we will leave our children to face a Middle East overrun by terrorist states and radical dictators armed with nuclear weapons. We are in a war that will set the course for this century.
 We helped drive the Taliban from power in Afghanistan. We put al Qaeda on the run and killed or captured most of those who planned the 9/11 attacks – including the man believed to be the mastermind, Khalid Sheik Mohammed. He and other suspected terrorists have provided valuable intelligence that has helped stop attacks in America and across the world. Now these men have been transferred to Guantanamo Bay, so they can be held to account for their actions.
 Saddam Hussein was not responsible for the 9/11 attacks, but his regime was a clear threat. The Administration, Congress, and the UN saw the threat – and after 9/11, Saddam's regime posed a risk the world could not afford to take. The world is safer because Saddam Hussein is no longer in power, and now the challenge is to help Iraq build a democracy that fulfills the dreams of the nearly 12 million Iraqis who voted last December.
 They have joined the remnants of Saddam's regime and other armed groups to foment sectarian violence and drive us out. Our enemies in Iraq are tough and they are committed, but so are Iraqi and Coalition forces. We are adapting to stay ahead of the enemy – and we are carrying out a clear plan to ensure that a democratic Iraq succeeds.
 Whatever mistakes have been made in Iraq, the worst mistake would be to think that if we pulled out, the terrorists would leave us alone. The safety of America depends on the outcome of the battle in the streets of Baghdad.
 Since 9/11, more than 1.6 million Americans have volunteered to wear our Nation's uniform. Some have suffered terrible injuries – and nearly 3,000 have given their lives. America cherishes their memory, prays for their families, and will never back down from the work they began.
 Thanks to the hard work of our law enforcement and intelligence professionals, we have broken up terrorist cells in our midst and saved American lives. Since 9/11, we have:
 Al Qaeda and those inspired by its hateful ideology have carried out terrorist attacks in more than two dozen nations – and just last month, they were foiled in a plot to blow up passenger planes headed for the United States.
 Given a choice, people will choose freedom over extremist ideology. So the terrorists' answer is to deny people this choice by raging against the forces of freedom and moderation. We are fighting for the possibility that good and decent people across the Middle East can raise up societies based on freedom, tolerance, and personal dignity.
 Then, on 9/11, it became clear that the "stability" we saw in the Middle East was only a mirage, providing no protection from the terrorists. We changed our policies, and committed America's influence in the world to advancing freedom and democracy as the great alternatives to repression and radicalism.
 From Kabul to Baghdad to Beirut, there are brave men and women risking their lives each day for the same freedoms that we enjoy. By standing with democratic leaders and reformers and by giving voice to the hopes of decent men and women, we are offering a path away from radicalism and we are enlisting the most powerful force for peace and moderation in the Middle East: the desire of millions to be free.
 Americans united in prayer, came to the aid of neighbors in need, and resolved that our enemies would not have the last word. We go forward with trust in that spirit, confidence in our purpose, and faith in a loving God who made us to be free.