 The President will deliver remarks on the Gulf Coast's recovery; meet with State and local government officials, community leaders, volunteers, and residents; and tour neighborhoods devastated by Hurricane Katrina. In New Orleans, he will participate in a prayer service, interviews with local and national media, and a roundtable on the Gulf Coast School Library Initiative.
 Tomorrow, President Bush will tour a New Orleans neighborhood, meet with local residents and volunteers, and deliver remarks on Gulf Coast recovery.
 St. Louis Cathedral is the centerpiece of Jackson Square, where President Bush delivered his September 2005 pledge to "do what it takes ... to help citizens rebuild their communities and their lives" after Hurricane Katrina. New Orleanians have worshipped in churches on this site since 1727.
 The Gulf Coast School Library Recovery Initiative is a special fund of the Laura Bush Foundation for America's Libraries. It was established to help Gulf Coast schools that were damaged by the hurricanes rebuild their book and material collections. According to the U.S. Department of Education, 1,121 public and private schools in the Gulf Coast region were damaged or destroyed. The Foundation uses a competitive grant process to distribute the Gulf Coast funds, and ten schools received awards totaling $500,000 in May 2006.
 The Saints' first home game this season is on Monday, September 25, against the Atlanta Falcons. The Saints played their first home game last season at Giants Stadium in New Jersey and played subsequent home games in San Antonio and Baton Rouge.
 One year after Hurricane Katrina, the Gulf Coast is rebuilding, and the Nation is better prepared for future natural disasters. Commerce is returning to the region, and as rebuilding plans are firmed up, growth and progress will follow, and New Orleans will once again be a vibrant American city.
 Challenges still remain, including crime and housing needs.
 The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is dramatically increasing the Nation's stockpiles of relief supplies, retooling FEMA, updating disaster plans, supporting State and local partners, and emphasizing individual and community preparedness. DHS has four times the emergency meals and ice, and 2.5 times the water available this year than were available prior to Hurricane Katrina. These supplies have the capacity to sustain 1 million people for one week.
 This funding is helping fulfill vital needs, including relocation, rental assistance, levees, housing and other infrastructure repair, flood insurance payments, education, and debris removal.
 For example, Federal officials have worked closely with State and local leaders to provide funding for debris removal from private property.