 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390


 To protect our children, Governor Romney will propose a new "One-Strike, You're Out" law for sexual predators, enforce our nation's obscenity laws, and guard against excessive violence and sexually explicit material in video games. We must clean up the ocean in which our children swim and these are the common-sense first steps in protecting our children.
 As President, Governor Romney will propose new, tougher federal penalties for first-time offenders who use the Internet to sexually assault children, including stiff mandatory jail time to be followed by lifetime tracking by Global Positioning Satellite (GPS). This will represent a "One-Strike, You're Ours" law for child predators.
- 
 In February 2006, the Department of Justice (DOJ) launched Project Safe Childhood, an initiative designed to protect children as they navigate the Internet. The Bush administration correctly recognized that as technology advances and the Internet becomes more accessible, there is a real danger that computer-facilitated crimes committed against children will continue to rise.
 Governor Romney's "One-Strike, You're Ours" Law will impose on the federal level the same tough sentences that states like Florida and California have put in place with "Jessica's Law." In Massachusetts, Governor Romney successfully fought to put the photos of the state's most dangerous sex offenders on the Internet, and he signed legislation to make it easier to extend the civil commitments of sex offenders. In 2006, President Bush signed the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, which significantly strengthened the nationwide sex offender registration system and created new federal crimes and enhanced penalties for other pre-existing crimes. Yet, most federal laws are not tough enough when sentencing a first-time offender for sex crimes against a child.
 As President, Governor Romney will require the Department of Justice to enforce our existing federal obscenity laws and ensure that we prosecute producers and distributors of the worst-of-the-worst obscene materials. Even though the interstate trafficking of obscenity is illegal, federal obscenity laws have not been adequately enforced. To protect our children, we need to enforce our current laws.
 While the current system of voluntary self-regulation of video games has improved, we still need to do more to protect our children. There must be strong punishments and fines for retailers that sell violent and sexually explicit video games to minors.