"In the coming months, this Administration will convene a White House conference on the Western Hemisphere that will bring together representatives from the private sector, and non-governmental organizations, and faith-based groups and volunteer associations. The purpose is to share experiences and discuss effective ways to deliver aid and build the institutions necessary for strong civil society."
 With the theme of "Advancing the Cause of Social Justice in the Americas," the conference includes representatives of approximately 150 regional-based organizations and 100 United States-based groups. It focuses on sharing lessons learned on how to promote education, healthcare, and economic opportunity at the grassroots level, and public-private partnerships throughout the hemisphere.
 The Comfort deployed in June and has made stops in Belize and Guatemala. It is also scheduled to stop in Panama, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Haiti, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Suriname. Its medical professionals plan to treat 85,000 patients and conduct up to 1,500 surgeries.
 Already, 100 healthcare professionals from six countries in the region have attended the first two courses, and another 50 students will be trained in September.
 This initiative will unite experts from the United States, Brazil, Costa Rica, and Mexico in the fight against breast cancer, which is the most common cause of cancer-related death for women worldwide. The partnership joins the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, Susan G. Komen for the Cure, and the U.S government. These partners will work to build capacity in the region by increasing research, training, and community outreach efforts and by helping women build the knowledge and confidence to take charge of their own health.
 This year, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) has already approved $305 million in financing to help underwrite mortgages and build homes in our hemisphere. Also, OPIC is currently planning to support more than $250 million in additional financing this year to help provide low and middle income residential home mortgage loans and home construction loans in ten Latin American countries. Through OPIC, for example, the U.S. provided $10 million in financing to help underwrite mortgages that will benefit low and middle income families in Nicaragua.
 Nine hundred participants from more than 30 countries discussed ways to make the Americas more competitive in the international marketplace. Follow-on meetings are scheduled in the hemisphere later this year.
 The plan will open new opportunities for small businesses to grow. Increasing access to capital throughout the Americas will help entrepreneurs create new jobs and opportunity for their fellow citizens.
 The United States will partner with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the private sector arm of the World Bank Group, to create a program to catalyze private investment in infrastructure in Latin America. This initial $17.5 million infrastructure project development program will include a $4.6 million U.S. contribution and a $1.9 million contribution from Brazil.
 On May 10, the Administration and Congress reached agreement on a path forward for our pending free trade agreements with Peru, Panama, Colombia, and South Korea. Congress must now show good faith by taking action on these agreements.
 The Administration has already provided an initial $1.5 million for this initiative, which will enable 120 undergraduate student leaders to study in the U.S., starting in January 2008. The program will provide the students with a deeper understanding of U.S. society and culture, while enhancing their leadership skills.