"Firefighters across the country have no greater friend than Rudy Giuliani. Those of us who have worked with Rudy Giuliani know he has always been a strong and consistent supporter of firefighters and first responders. On September 11th and the days that followed Mayor Giuliani once again demonstrated his commitment to the safety and well being of our firefighters and his respect for their extraordinary courage and sacrifice."
— Howard Safir, Former FDNY Commissioner
 After a terrible fire killed two firefighters shortly after he took office, Mayor Giuliani directed the FDNY to purchase and outfit every firefighter with new, state-of the-art protective bunker gear. By the end of his first year in office, the City had distributed 11,300 sets of bunker gear at a cost of approximately $10 million. The new bunker gear resulted in a decrease of burn injuries by nearly 60% between 1994 and 1996. (Norimitsu Onishi, "A Bittersweet Graduation As Fallen Firefighters Are Mourned," The New York Times, 4/1/94; FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 16; Alison Mitchell, "Mayor's Bet: Safety Carries More Weight With Public," The New York Times, 5/11/94)
 (Julio Laboy, "Sharp Drop In Overtime At Fire Dept.," Newsday, 1/8/95)
 To reduce heat stress at the fire scene, FDNY provided relief units faster than had previously been done. Recuperation and Care units, equipped with ice, water, fruit drinks, cold towels and misting fans to provide relief and hydration at the fire scene, responded to numerous fires. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 17)
 Giuliani Administration purchased thermal-imaging cameras for all FDNY Ladder Companies, allowing firefighters to see into smoke-filled spaces, locate victims more quickly, and detect hidden pockets of fires in walls and ceilings. (Mayor's State of the City Address, Jan 13, 2000; FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 9)
 In 1998, FDNY purchased Personal Alert Safety System (PASS) alarms for all firefighters to assist in the search and rescue of immobile/unconscious firefighters. The PASS alarms are integrated with the self-contained breathing apparatus, activating the alarm any time the air pack was in use so that firefighters no longer had to worry about activating their PASS in the middle of a fire response. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 17)
 The new exams, tailored to the unique risk factors that firefighters face, are much more comprehensive and thorough. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 18)
 Capital spending for the Fire Department under the Giuliani administration rose to an average of $120 million a year for eight years. This was a substantial increase over the $21 million a year for four years spent by the previous administration. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, Pg 25)
 (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 29 )
 (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, pp. 14-15)
 FDNY established the Special Operations Command Battalion in 1998 to oversee the role of specialized units at incidents concerning hazardous materials, chemical/biological threats, confined space operations and high-angle rope rescue. The Special Operations Command Battalion is responsible for five Rescue Companies, seven Squad Companies, three Marine Units, and one Haz-Mat unit, as well as the Tactical Support, De-Watering, De-Con, and Recuperation and Care (RAC) units. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 9)
 In 1998, FDNY designated five Engine Companies as Squad Companies, bringing the total number of squads under the Special Operations Command to seven. The Squad Companies, which had to undergo special training, can go into action as either an Engine or Ladder Company, and received intensive training in Ladder Company operations, Haz-Mat mitigation and decontamination procedures, as well as a variety of rescue skills. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 9)
 Mayor Giuliani and the FDNY created and placed Auxiliary Rescue Craft in service within the Marine Division in 1996. These two firefighting/rescue boats patrol the waterways between May and October, and immediately accounted for many water rescues, which resulted in more craft being ordered by the FDNY. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 9)
 (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 10)
 Engine Company 294 in Richmond Hill/Woodhaven, Queens was reopened; Ladder Company 133 in South Jamaica/St. Albans, Queens was established; and Division 13 in southeast Queens was established. (FDNY, "With New York Firefighters," 4th Issue, 2001, p. 9; Office Of Mayor Giuliani, Press Release, 1/31/97)