 GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "Conservatism, Republicanism, is a philosophy of strength. We believe in a strong military, a strong economy, and in strong families and values. We believe in the American people. ... And when you need to call on the strength of America, you don't strengthen government, you strengthen the American people. You strengthen the American people by letting them keep more of their own money, not by taxing them more when they earn, taxing them when they save and taxing them when they die! You strengthen the American people by making sure that the voice of millions of voters trumps the voice of a handful of unelected judges. You strengthen the American people with the world's best healthcare, the world's best schools, and the world's strongest families. We must preserve the institution of marriage – every child deserves a mother and a father!" (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Young Republican National Convention, Hollywood, FL, 7/7/07)
 "Now, some states have chosen to raise taxes under the weight of economic stress. We did not, as a state, at least not since I've been in office. Raising taxes is the opposite of giving people the freedom they need to make their own life choices. Raising taxes hurts working people. It stifles innovation. It makes a state and a nation less competitive, not more competitive." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The National Press Club, Washington, DC, 7/14/04)
 (Scott Greenberger, "Tax Revenue Slowdown In Forecast," 
, 12/13/05)


 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)


 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Economic Stimulus, Supplemental Budget Bills," Press Release, 11/26/03)


 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Bill To Give Seniors Tax Relief," Press Release, 11/20/05)


 (Michael Levenson, "Governor Drums Up Business For State's Tax-Free Weekend," 
 8/12/05)
 "There was no one else out on the horizon and with the legislature almost entirely Democratic, we felt it was necessary to have a grown-up in the corner office. ... And we were right to back him. He's been a really good friend to the taxpayers." (Shawn Macomber, "Mighty Mitt Romney," 
 
, 3/06)
 (John J. Miller, "Matinee Mitt," 
, 6/20/05)
 "Demonstrating his commitment to oppose any effort to increase taxes on the American people, Governor Romney has signed Americans For Tax Reform's 'Taxpayer Protection Pledge.' As part of his pledge, Governor Romney will 'oppose any and all efforts to increase the marginal income tax rates' and 'oppose any net reduction or elimination of deductions and credits.'" (Romney For President Exploratory Committee, "Governor Mitt Romney Signs 'Taxpayer Protection Pledge'," Press Release, 1/4/07)
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Detroit Economic Club, Detroit, MI, 2/7/07)
 GOV. ROMNEY: "We should ... promote fairness and simplicity by ending special interest loopholes and lowering tax rates for all Americans." (Romney For President, "Governor Romney's Remarks At The Club For Growth," Press Release, 3/29/07)
 "Every uninsured citizen in Massachusetts will soon have affordable health insurance and the costs of health care will be reduced. And we will need no new taxes, no employer mandate and no government takeover to make this happen." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health Care For Everyone?" 
, 4/11/06)
 "[M]y plan calls for a personal responsibility principle: Everyone must either become insured or maintain adequate savings to cover their medical expenses." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Health-Care Reform Gets A Fair Shake," 
, 6/21/05)
 "In reality, those who want to create a consumer-based health system and deregulate health insurance should view Romney's plan as one of the most promising strategies out there." (Edmund F. Haislmaier, "Mitt's Fit," The Heritage Foundation, 
, 1/28/07)
 (Dolly A Butz, "Romney Calls For Isolation Of Iran," 
, 2/19/07)
 "If elected, Romney said he would not propose a 'one-size-fits-all' national health-care plan, but would encourage the federal government to provide flexibility to let states carry out their own plans. 'Some states will probably do it better,' said Romney, adding that more than 20 states are considering plans similar to the Massachusetts experiment." (Ryan J. Halliday, "Romney Defends His Health-Care Plan," 
 [Nashua, NH] 
, 6/7/07)
 "Joining other Democratic women senators at an event for Sen. Barbara Boxer, who's seeking re-election, Hillary Clinton told hundreds of party faithful to expect to lose some of the tax cuts passed under President George W. Bush if Democrats take control in Washington next year." (Beth Fouhy, "San Francisco Rolls Out Red Carpet For The Clintons," 
, 6/28/04)
 SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "It's time for a new beginning, for an end to government of the few, by the few and for the few, time to reject the idea of an 'on your own' society and to replace it with shared responsibility for shared prosperity. I prefer a 'we're all in it together' society." (Manchester School Of Technology, Manchester, NH, 5/29/07)
 (Beth Fouhy, "San Francisco Rolls Out Red Carpet For The Clintons," 
, 6/28/04)
 SEN BARACK OBAMA: "I would roll back the Bush cuts for those making over 250,000." (CNBC's "Kudlow & Company," 6/4/07)
 SEN. JOHN EDWARDS: "I would pay for it by getting rid of Bush's tax cuts for people who make over $200,000 a year." (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360," 6/6/07)
 "Congressional Democrats yesterday proposed a $2.9 trillion budget plan that seeks to boost spending by $23 billion over the president's request, setting up a confrontation with the White House over funding for education, health care and veterans' services. ... The five-year budget plan ... assumes, for now, that taxes on dividends, stock sales and the income of the wealthiest families would go up in 2011." (Lori Montgomery, "Democrats Make Budget Proposal," 
, 5/17/07)
 SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "Let's start holding corporate America responsible, make them pay their fair share again." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks At Campaign For America's Future Take Back America Conference, Washington, DC, 5/29/07)
 "On Saturday, she said that the failure of her proposal for universal coverage in 1994 made her more determined to achieve the goal now. 'It also makes me understand what we are up against,' Mrs. Clinton said. 'We have to modernize and reform the way we deliver health care. But we have to change the way we finance it. That's going to mean taking money away from people who make out really well right now.'" (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," 
 
, 3/25/07)
 "Obama said his plan could save the average consumer $2,500 a year and bring health care to all. Campaign aides estimated the cost of the program at $50 billion to $65 billion a year, financed largely by eliminating tax cuts that are scheduled to expire." ("Obama Unveils Universal Health Care Plan," 
, 5/29/07)
 "Seven Democratic candidates for president promised Saturday to guarantee health insurance for all, but they disagreed over how to pay for it and how fast it could be achieved. ... John Edwards, the former senator from North Carolina, offered the most detailed plan for universal coverage, saying he would raise taxes to help pay the cost, which he estimated at $90 billion to $120 billion a year." (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," 
, 3/25/07)
 "Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico offered a potpourri of ideas to achieve universal coverage, including tax credits to help people buy insurance and an option to let people ages 55 to 64 buy coverage through Medicare. To help pay for his proposals, Mr. Richardson said, he would 'get out of Iraq' and redirect money from the military to health care." (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," 
, 3/25/07)