 – The John Edwards for President campaign announced today the support of a growing list of African American leaders from around the country. In addition to prominent members of Congress, several state representatives, civil rights leaders and community activists are endorsing Edwards for president.
"I am so grateful to have the support of these friends and colleagues who share my commitment to addressing the critical issues facing our communities," said Edwards. "Working together, we can lift up families and make a real difference in people's lives—strengthening our schools, guaranteeing quality, affordable health care and making sure workers are paid fairly."
Today, too many Americans are separated from the opportunities of our country. Edwards has dedicated his life to building One America, where every person—regardless of race, gender or income—has the same opportunities to work hard and get ahead. He has laid out detailed plans to strengthen African American communities and all communities by expanding the middle class and ending poverty in America, protecting workers' rights, providing universal health care, and making college available and affordable for more young people.
In addition to laying out bold plans to bridge the gap between the Two Americas that exist today, Edwards has called on the American people to take action to transform our communities. In the past few years, Edwards has worked to raise the minimum wage in six states, walked picket lines to support workers' right to organize and led service projects to help rebuild the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina.
"I have known John for years and have not hesitated to support him," said Julius Chambers, the campaign's Treasurer, Director of the University of North Carolina Center for Civil Rights and former Director-Counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund. "His commitment to helping those in need, whether they are Hurricane Katrina survivors or standing with workers fighting for a union in a North Carolina meat processing plant."
The list of supporters includes: