On the eve of the 38th anniversary of Stonewall, Hillary for President announced the formation of "LGBT Americans for Hillary," a national steering committee of over 65 leaders in the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community. Members of the steering committee include LGBT elected officials, activists from national LGBT and Democratic Party political groups as well as leaders from the worlds of business, entertainment and sports. This leadership committee will work with the campaign on several areas including political outreach, communications, policy advice and counsel, and fundraising.
"I've seen how Hillary Clinton's experience, commitment, and leadership have made a difference for the LGBT community," said New York City Council Speaker Christine Quinn. "From her efforts to defeat the Federal Marriage Amendment to standing up for our rights in employment practices, there is no one else in this race who will fight harder for the LGBT community. She's ready to be our next president and I look forward to organizing the LGBT community on her behalf."
The list of supporters on the steering committee demonstrates the history of friendship that Hillary Clinton has had with this community and the depth of her support among LGBT leaders. It includes people like former U.S. Assistant Attorney General Eldie Acheson, who went to college with Hillary Clinton, and Neel Lattimore who worked for her as First Lady as well as film/TV writer and producer Greg Berlanti who met her last week and signed on as a supporter immediately. The list also includes prominent LGBT activists who have been leaders on issues important to the community, including three retired members of the military who have worked to overturn the Don't Ask, Don't Tell policy, advocates in the fight against HIV/AIDS, and the attorney who argued and won the landmark Supreme Court case, Lawrence v. Texas.
"Her commitment to repeal Don't Ask, Don't Tell, and her steadfast work to improve access to care and treatment for people living with HIV/AIDS are just two of the reasons why I support Hillary Clinton for President," said Jose Zuniga, President of the Chicago-based International Association of Physicians in AIDS Care. Zuniga, who attained the rank of Sergeant, was honorably discharged from the U.S. Army in 1993 after coming out as a gay man. He served as a military medic during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, and had been named the Sixth US Army's Soldier of the Year six weeks prior to his discharge.
Hillary Clinton has worked to advance the cause of equality for LGBT Americans for many years. As president, Clinton has pledged to end the divisive leadership of the past six years and work with the LGBT community to make sure that all Americans in committed relationships have equal economic benefits and rights. She also will work to end discrimination in adoption laws. As a U.S. Senator, she has worked to expand federal hate crimes legislation and pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, and will sign the legislation into law once she is in the White House. She will also put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
"I am proud to have the support of such distinguished leaders in the LGBT community," said Clinton. "Together, we can move our nation closer to the promise of fairness and equality that all Americans deserve."
Already, Hillary for President has been actively reaching out to earn the support of the LGBT community. In March, Clinton addressed the Human Rights Campaign's Board Meeting and Equality Convention -- the only candidate to accept their invitation. Her LGBT supporters have hosted two fundraisers for her campaign, one in Washington, D.C., on May 23, 2007, and one in Los Angeles last Friday. Hillary for President has a full-time staff person, Mark Walsh, solely focused on LGBT outreach.
"Hillary Clinton has precisely the priorities our nation needs at this time -- a strong defense with a balanced hand to guide it, a will to strengthen education and health care, a fair tax system and a balanced budget - and equal treatment of every American under the law," said Elizabeth Birch, former executive director of the Human Rights Campaign. "The LGBT community has seen many hard political years. It is time for a renaissance for our nation and for our community."
* Members of LGBT AMERICANS FOR HILLARY have endorsed Hillary Clinton for President in their individual capacity. The names of past or present affiliations are included to assist in identifying the individuals listed and do not indicate any endorsement by that group or organization.