NEVADA – Hillary Clinton's Nevada Chair Rory Reid today announced the formation of the Nevada Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Leadership Council, a wide-ranging group of community leaders endorsing Senator Clinton's bid for the presidency. The council will serve as an advisory body for the campaign in Nevada, and play an active role in reaching out and organizing AAPI communities for the Nevada Democratic caucus.
The group of founding council members introduced today cuts across a wide spectrum of communities and professions, and includes educators, activists, public service veterans and business leaders from across the state.
"Throughout her career, Hillary Clinton has recognized the important role that our cultural and ethnic diversity plays in the fabric of American society," said council member Rozita Lee. "She is the candidate with the experience and the vision to unite us, and get our country back on track. I am proud to support Hillary Clinton, and to be a part of such a wonderful group of leaders working on her behalf in Nevada."
Nevada's AAPI population has over the past decade been one of the fastest growing in the nation. At the time of the last census, AAPIs accounted for more than 6 percent of the state's population. There is tremendous opportunity to engage new AAPI voters in Nevada. According to APIA Vote, a national nonpartisan, nonprofit organization promoting civic participation of the AAPI community, only 42 percent of eligible AAPIs were registered to vote in 2002.
"We are very excited to have such a talented, dedicated group in Senator Clinton's Asian American and Pacific Islander Leadership Council," said Reid. "This will be a very hands-on group whose efforts will go a long way to help reach out to diverse AAPI communities in every corner of the state and promote involvement in the caucus, and in Senator Clinton's campaign. We are grateful for their support and happy to have them aboard."
The founding members of Hillary Clinton's Nevada Asian American/Pacific Islander Leadership Council, announced today, are: