 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Work Like Crazy." The ad highlights Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington through lower government spending and lower taxes. In the private sector, at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games and as Governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney brought change to institutions and turned them around. He will do the same for Washington.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation today in Iowa and New Hampshire. Scripts and viewing links are below.
 "We have an opportunity to really make a change in this country.
"Government is simply too big. State government's too big. The federal government's too big. It's spending too much.
"I'm going to cut spending. I'm going to cut taxes.
"Lower marginal tax rates for all Americans. Get taxes down. Make them simpler, and flatter, and lower.
"I've brought change to every institution I've touched. I'm going to work like crazy to go to Washington and bring change there.
"I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
 
 


 "We have an opportunity to really make a change in this country." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 
 "Government is simply too big. State government's too big. The federal government's too big. It's spending too much. There's a lot we can do with efficiency and duplication. There's even more we can do by just simply cutting back on the scale of our government." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 
 "I'm going to cut spending." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 "It's time for some economic conservatism in Washington as well. America has seen an embarrassing spike in non-defense discretionary spending. And, as you know, I'm proud to be the first presidential candidate to sign Grover Norquist's tax pledge. But I have another pledge I'd like to make to you today: If I'm elected president, I'm going to cap non-defense discretionary spending at inflation minus one percent. That would save $300 billion – $300 billion – in 10 years. And if Congress sends me a budget that exceeds that cap, I will veto that budget." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 "And, by the way, if Congress doesn't want to do the cutting itself, then give me the same line-item veto I had as a Governor and I'll do it for them." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 "One more thing in this regard: If elected president, I will personally – personally – lead a top-to-bottom review of government programs, agencies and procurement and spending." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 "I Believe There Is A Lot We Can Cut From The Federal Budget." "Romney said he would conduct a rigorous review of all federal programs and agencies, not just the occasional reauthorizations done by Congress. 'I believe there is a lot we can cut from the federal budget,' he said." (Garry Rayno, "Romney: Spending Cap, Programs Review Crucial," 
 [Manchester, NH] 
, 3/2/07)
 


 "I'm going to cut taxes." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 "Lower marginal tax rates for all Americans. Get taxes down. Make them simpler, and flatter and lower." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 "The right direction is always to bring tax rates down. If you believe that the strength of America flows from government, then you want more taxes. But if you believe that the strength of America flows from the American people, you want to hold their taxes down for themselves and for the employers that employ them." (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 4/4/07)
 "We should strive to keep marginal tax rates on America's families and businesses no higher than those imposed by our major global competitors. We should end tax penalties against saving and investment, and promote fairness and simplicity by ending special interest loopholes and lowering tax rates for all Americans." (Romney For President, "Governor Romney's Remarks At The Club For Growth," Press Release, 3/29/07)
 
 "I've brought change to every institution I've touched. I'm going to work like crazy to go to Washington and bring change there." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Club For Growth, Palm Beach, FL, 3/29/07)
 "Romney took over as head of Salt Lake's Olympic organizing committee in February 1999 after it was revealed Salt Lake organizers doled out more than $1 million in cash and gifts to members of the International Olympic Committee to win the 2002 bid. Under Romney's leadership, the Games were lauded as a critical success, a model of post-Sept. 11 security and turned a $100 million profit. Romney, a successful venture capitalist before the Games, wrote a book after titled 'Turnaround: Crisis, Leadership and the Olympic Games.'" (Debbie Hummel, "Utah's 'Adopted Son' Returns To State For Presidential Fundraiser," 
, 2/21/07)
 CNN'S RHONDA SCHAFFLER: "Romney had a solid reputation in the business community for turning companies around, like Staples, Domino's Pizza and the Sports Authority." (CNN's "Business Unusual," 1/27/02)
 "Hired in 1999 to turn around the scandal – and debt –plagued Salt Lake City Olympic committee, Romney put it in the black and oversaw a successful Olympics in 2002. He was elected governor of Massachusetts that same year. With a Democratic-controlled state legislature, he managed to balance the budget without raising taxes." (Dan Gilgoff, "A Massachusetts Conservative," 
, 2/12/07)
 