 – Governor Mitt Romney (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "A Stem-Cell Solution," 
, 6/15/07)
 
 
 "Gov. Mitt Romney vetoed a bill Friday to expand stem cell experiments in Massachusetts because it would allow the cloning of human embryos – a practice he has called morally wrong." (Theo Emery, "Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney Vetoes Stem Cell Bill," 
, 5/27/05)
 "It is wrong to allow science to take an assembly line approach to the production of human embryos, the creation of which will be rooted in experimentation and destruction." (Theo Emery, "Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney Vetoes Stem Cell Bill," 
, 5/27/05)
 "I don't believe that somatic cell nuclear transfer or cloning and embryo farming are appropriate and would not pursue federal funding of those forms of stem cell research." (David A. Lieb, "Romney Wraps Self In Reagan Lingo," 
, 2/11/07)
 "I studied the issue for many months, and entered into conversation with experts from across the nation who were looking for consensus solutions, like Stanford's Dr. William Hurlbut. In the end, I became persuaded that the stem-cell debate was grounded in a false premise, and that the way through it was around it: by the use of scientific techniques that could produce the equivalent of embryonic stem cells but without cloning, creating, harming, or destroying developing human lives." (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "A Stem-Cell Solution," 
, 6/15/07)
 "Every decision I have made as Governor in a very liberal state has been on the side of favoring life." (Robert Behre, "Romney Gets S.C. Support," 
, 1/30/07)
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "Why I Vetoed The Contraception Bill," 
, 7/26/05)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Announces Award Of Abstinence Education Contract," Press Release, 4/20/06)
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Letter To The Massachusetts State Senate And House Of Representatives, 5/12/05)
 (John McElhenny, "O'Brien And Romney Spar In Last Debate Before Election," 
, 10/29/02)
 "Having Governor Romney in the corner office for the last four years has been one of the strongest assets the pro-life movement has had in Massachusetts." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "An Early Massachusetts Primary," 
, 1/10/07)
 "Mitt Romney was a great Governor, who served with honor and distinction. But most importantly, he was a pro-life Governor. He vetoed a number of pro-abortion pieces of legislation and made many pro-life appointments. He was always there for us." (Kevin Jourdain, Remarks, Agawam, MA, 5/10/07)