Under The Bipartisan Immigration Reform Bill, A Reliable Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS) Must Be Established And In Use Before Any Temporary Worker Or Z Visas Are Issued.
 Under the current system, only a small percentage of U.S. employers participate in Basic Pilot, the voluntary program established to help employers determine the legal status of new hires. Under the bill, all U.S. employers will be required to check new hires using EEVS after an initial 18-month phase-in. Within three years, employers must use EEVS to verify the work eligibility of all employees not previously verified through the system.
 EEVS allows for only a limited range of stronger and more readily verifiable identification documents including:
 In addition to the checks against Social Security Administration (SSA) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) databases now performed under Basic Pilot, EEVS will link to the U.S. Department of State and Departments of Motor Vehicles in individuals States to confirm issuance of identity documents and provide employers with the digital photograph associated with these documents.
 The bill does not put the sole responsibility for legal hiring practices on the private sector; rather, the bill facilitates cooperation between employers and government officials so honest employers can more easily follow the law and violators can be held accountable for hiring illegal workers.
 Almost all others are not eligible for work. DHS is working with SSA to increase the percentage of employees quickly verified as eligible for employment by incorporating additional data sources on immigrants and nonimmigrants into the program and implementing a new capability to query by DHS card number. This will reduce the number of DHS and SSA mismatches.
 Employees must contest the nonconfirmation within 10 business days, or it is considered final and the employee must be terminated. Employees who contest the nonconfirmation will work with the appropriate Federal or State agency to resolve the discrepancy in the records. The bill anticipates discrepancies should be resolved no more than 10 business days after the employee contests the nonconfirmation, but this time is extended by the Secretary of Homeland Security if the employee is taking all actions required to resolve the problem.