"I believe in a sacred contract between our country and America's veterans and military families. We must stand by those who stand by us. When our service men and women sacrifice so much to defend our freedom and secure peace around the world, we have a moral obligation to take care of them and their families."

  – John Edwards
America is asking for deep sacrifices from the brave men and women of our Armed Services, without providing them and our veterans with the support they need. The recent scandal at the Walter Reed military hospital is only the tip of the iceberg. The Defense Department and the VA are still having trouble sharing medical records. Extended tours of duty and rapid redeployments have put new strains on military families. College has never been more important, but the GI Bill is now available to only half our service men and women in Iraq. [GAO, 2007]
Today, John Edwards called for repairing the sacred contract with our veterans and military community. In recognition of their bravery and sacrifice, Edwards believes we must guarantee quality health care for service men and women and every generation of veterans, provide families with the support necessary to withstand the strain of separations, and ensure returning troops have access to the education and opportunities to succeed in civilian life. Central to the sacred contract is a solemn pledge to every man and woman who risks their life for our country that we will take care of them as they take care of us.
Health care has been a cornerstone of our nation's commitment to our heroes since the first states undertook responsibility for caring for Continental Army veterans. Today, we are falling short on our historic commitment. Veterans report long delays for appointments at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities, which have done valiant work under difficult circumstances. The Bush Administration has consistently underfunded the VA and his budget cuts veterans' health in future years, while shifting burdens to beneficiaries. A review of 1,400 veterans' health facilities has turned up more than 1,000 reports of substandard conditions. [DVA, 2007; Washington Post, 10/13/06; PVA, 2007; DAV, 2006]
The changing nature of warfare has created a new class of injuries and a new set of needs for troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Body armor and other technologies have protected men and women from injuries that would have killed them 10 years ago. But they still suffer extreme injuries from explosive blasts, including burns and an unprecedented number of traumatic brain injuries. These brain injuries often lead to epilepsy, related seizures, and other disabling conditions. Nonetheless, this year the Pentagon cut the request for the vital Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center by 50 percent. The true cost of the war in Iraq includes substantial mental health issues. Nearly one out of every three veterans coming home are diagnosed with mental health issues. When they do get treatment, it is often poor; many are simply prescribed antidepressants or sleep aids. The vacancy rate in some services for active duty psychologists is nearly 40 percent, and many psychologists are not trained to treat post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). [House Committee on Veterans Affairs; New England Journal of Medicine, 5/19/05; Epilepsy Foundation, 2007; Archives of Internal Medicine, 3/12/07; Truman National Security Project, 2007]
As president, John Edwards will:
The conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan have put our military and their families under incredible pressure through frequent extended tours and an unsustainable operations tempo. Army management policies aim for at least two years at home between deployments for active-duty personnel and mobilization of Guards members and Reservists no more than once every five or six years. But today we are sending some troops back with even less than a year's rest and recently extended Army tours from 12 to 15 months. On top of everything else, health care coverage for families of mobilized Guards members and Reservists is often disrupted or becomes costly if they wish to keep their civilian coverage. [MOAA 2007]
As president, John Edwards will:
The final cornerstone of the sacred contract with our military and veterans community is ensuring that returning troops have access to the educational and economic opportunities to succeed in civilian life. Our armed forces and the way they are used have changed, and our policies must adapt. The original GI Bill put 13 million returning American service members through college after World War II and helped build the middle class. Today, our armed forces are smaller, but the need for higher education to succeed in civilian life is even greater. College graduates can expect to earn $1 million more over their lifetimes than high school graduates, and their children are almost twice as likely to attend college themselves. [College Summit, 2007]
Guard and Reserves members comprise half of our force in Iraq. One quarter of Guard members and Reservists are college students, and many more are graduates with student loans. When these patriots fight for our country overseas, they continue to pay interest on their student loans at home -- as much as $1,400 a year for the average service man and woman with loans.
While service men and women gain valuable training while serving, their experience often goes unrecognized when they go look for a job. The unemployment rate among young returning veterans aged 18-24 today is 15 percent, compared to 8 percent for Americans of the same age who did not serve. [American Legion, 2006]
As president, John Edwards will: