 – Today in Austin, Texas, Senator John Edwards will announce his support for committing the United States to join in a world effort to reduce global greenhouse gas pollution by 50 percent by 2050. Last week, the G8 challenged the United States to make this commitment, but instead of agreeing to the reductions, President Bush only agreed to future meetings to discuss voluntary reductions.
Edwards also continued his call for the United States to lead the world in the fight against global warming by aggressively cutting greenhouse gas pollution here at home. As president, Edwards would cap American emissions by 2010, reduce them by 20 percent by 2020, and reduce them by 80 percent by 2050.
"Global warming is an emergency that requires immediate action from the world community," said Edwards. "Before the United States can rally the world to take action, we need to show leadership here at home. We should be leading the charge in this area, not turning our back on the world. Although President Bush refuses to address the crisis, each of us can take responsibility in small ways to make a big difference—by conserving energy and fighting global warming. If we harness American ingenuity, we can emerge from the crisis of global warming with a new energy economy that stimulates innovation, brings the family farm back to life and creates more than 1 million jobs in America's farms and industries."
Edwards has called on Americans to be patriotic about something other than war and to take action in their own lives to fight global warming. In April, John Edwards One Corps groups from across the country held "Reduce Your Carbon" events today to urge members of their communities to sign a pledge to reduce their personal carbon emissions. Edwards also launched a website, 
, which encourages Americans to decrease their personal carbon emissions by taking simple steps, like replacing regular light bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs, weathering homes with caulk and keeping air filters clean. Edwards also participated in a "Step it Up" rally in Ft. Myers, Florida to urge Congress to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas pollution by 80 percent by 2050.
In March, Edwards laid out an aggressive plan which halts global warming, achieves energy independence and jumpstarts a new energy economy by: