President George W. Bush today announced that he has named nine individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President has named J. Michael Farren to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President. Mr. Farren recently served as Corporate Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Xerox Corporation. Prior to this, he served as Under Secretary for International Trade at the U.S. Department of Commerce. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Campaign Manager for the Bush-Quayle Re-election Committee and Deputy Director of President George H.W. Bush's Transition Team. Mr. Farren received his bachelor's degree from Fairfield University, his master's degree from Trinity College, and his JD from the University of Connecticut.
The President has named William Burck to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Special Counsel to the President. Mr. Burck recently served as Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary at the White House. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York and as a Law Clerk to the Honorable Anthony M. Kennedy of the Supreme Court of the United States. Mr. Burck received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his JD from Yale Law School.
The President has named Emmet Flood to be Deputy Assistant to the President and Special Counsel to the President. Mr. Flood recently was a Partner at Williams & Connolly, LLP. Prior to this, he served as a Law Clerk to Associate Justice Antonin Scalia of the Supreme Court of the United States. Earlier in his career, he served as Law Clerk for Judge Ralph K. Winter, Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Mr. Flood received his bachelor's degree from the University of Dallas and his JD from Yale Law School. He received his master's degree and PhD from the University of Texas at Austin.
The President has named Scott Coffina to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Coffina recently served as a Partner at Montgomery McCracken Walker & Rhoads in Philadelphia. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant United States Attorney in United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and an Associate at Miller Alfano & Raspanti in Philadelphia. Mr. Coffina received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his JD from the University of Pennsylvania.
The President has named Amy F. Dunathan to be Associate Counsel to the President. Ms. Dunathan recently served as an Associate at Wiley Rein & Fielding, LLP. Earlier in her career, she served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Ricardo M. Urbina of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and as Senior Republican Counsel at the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Ms. Dunathan received her bachelor's degree from Brown University and her JD from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President has named Francis Q. Hoang to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Hoang recently served as an Associate at Williams & Connolly LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as a Judicial Law Clerk to the Honorable Thomas B. Griffith on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and Deputy Chief of Police and SWAT Commander at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Mr. Hoang received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy, his master's degree from Washburn University and his JD from Georgetown University Law Center.
The President has named Al Lambert to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Lambert recently served as an Associate at Wiley Rein & Fielding, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as a Law Clerk for the Honorable Laurence H. Silberman, United States Court of Appeals, DC Circuit and Summer Associate at Patton Boggs, LLP. Mr. Lambert received his bachelor's degree from New York University and his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President has named Michael Purpura to be Associate Counsel to the President. Mr. Purpura recently served as Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General at the United States Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Hawaii and as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. Mr. Purpura received his bachelor's degree from the United States Military Academy and his JD from the Columbia University School of Law.
The President has named Kate Todd to be Associate Counsel to the President. Ms. Todd recently served as a Partner at Wiley Rein & Fielding, LLP. Earlier in her career, she served as a Law Clerk to the Honorable Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court of the United States and a Law Clerk to the Honorable J. Michael Luttig of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Ms. Todd received her bachelor's degree from Cornell University and her JD from Harvard Law School.