 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 "There was one candidate that did even better than Rudy in our dials and it was Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Watch how the dials react to his expression and communication about his religion."
 "Well, President Kennedy some time ago said he was not a Catholic running for president, he was an American running for president. And I'm happy to be a proud member of my faith. You know, I think it's a fair question for people to ask, what do you believe? And I think if you want to understand what I believe, you could recognize that the values that I have are the same values you'll find in faiths across this country. I believe in God, believe in the Bible, believe Jesus Christ is my savior. I believe that God created man in his image. I believe that the freedoms of man derive from inalienable rights that were given to us by God. And I also believe that there are some pundits out there..."
 "Frank?"
 "It's off the chart. It's actually off the chart."
 "Have you ever seen this before? Does that happen very often?"
 "It happens once or twice every hour, that's it. In a full hour's worth of communication, maybe two candidates in one response will do well. So let's close with what they had to say about Romney. The group, only six or seven people who walked into the room were choosing Romney when the debate began. Watch what happens when the debate's over and what they had to say."
 "His answers, he's just answering the questions right off the bat. He's not giving any bull."
 "He's answering the questions more directly."
 "He's not backing down from his answers, he's standing firm on them, whether you like them or not."
 "He's answering the questions the best he can, honestly."
 "He's a very good communicator and he sticks by his answers."
 "I feel he's very knowledgeable in a comprehensive way. He covers a lot of territory."
 "He handled the Mormon thing as good as he should have, and it's time that Wolf Blitzer gets another subject."
...
 "And the winner was?"
 "Mitt Romney."
To watch the full clip, please watch: 