 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 "Romney's Answer on War on Terror: Quite good (and he was shrewd to get off the tactical nuke thing quickly with a simple no-option-off-the-table)." (Rich Lowry, "The Corner," National Review Blog, 
, 6/5/07)
 (Hugh Hewitt, "We Are Not Going To Build Fences And Barriers," 
, Accessed 6/5/07)
 "And I'll quickly defend Mitt Romney. I thought he had a good performance tonight. And I thought it was impressive that he brought up China, which is a huge economic issue that I think is going to play big in the general election. I thought he was very clear about Iraq, which is 'fight terror.'" (CNN's "Post-Debate Coverage," 6/5/07)
 "How many times will Romney have to answer for his religion, and why does he have to do it at all? Romney gave a gracious and tenacious answer, which should be the last time he has to answer it." (Edward Morrissey, "Romney gets the Mormon question... again...," Heading Right, 
, 6/5/07)
 "Romney got the Mormon question. He quotes JFK - 'not a Catholic running for president but an American.' He also makes it political but slams it back on the press. Romney: 'I also believe there are some pundits out there who hope I'm going to distance myself from my church in order to help myself politically and that's not going to happen.'" (Emily Goodin, "Praying to God," The Hotline: On Call, 
, Posted 6/5/07)
 "As I was watching this, I thought, 'I would be comfortable with Romney as the nominee.' The word 'unflappable' comes to mind. Solid answer on a borderline unfair question on the Mormon thing. I'm struck by how he manages to squeeze an answer that's usually pretty solid no matter what amount of time is available." (Jim Geraghty, "GOP Debate Three Wrapup," 
, The Hillary Spot, 
, 6/5/07)
 "Later, Romney called for making the Z-visa program in the Senate legislation temporary and called on the government to enforce current law. He drew two rounds of applause." (Chris Cillizza, "McCain & Giuliani Tussle Over Immigration," 
: The Fix, 
, Posted 6/5/07)
 JOHN KING: "... [A]nd Mitt Romney did good on the idea of Mormonism and invoking the idea of John Kennedy, a religion like yours, not to be afraid of and that's something his campaign will have to engage in probably more than just tonight as the campaign goes along." (CNN, "Post Debate Coverage," 6/5/07)