WASHINGTON, DC - Governor Bill Richardson today unveiled a bold new Energy and Climate Policy Plan at a speech to the New America Foundation.
"Gasoline is back up over $3 a gallon and people are hurting," stated Governor Richardson. "Retail sales are down, as many American households do not have income to spread across high gasoline costs and other life expenses. Consumers are hurting because US energy markets are not diverse and competitive, and because we have fed our addiction to oil instead of ending it."
"We need an aggressive national energy and climate policy that helps Americans who are struggling to heat their homes, fill their gas tanks and that moves us to safe, available alternatives as quickly as possible. We also need a policy that will help the US meet the two great challenges of our era: energy security and global warming."
Today, I'm going to stake my claim to being the next President, the Energy President, on the concept of a fast, comprehensive energy revolution in the United States," stated Governor Bill Richardson. "We need a man on the moon program to end our oil addiction, but we need it faster and bolder than others have suggested."
Governor Richardson's five point framework breaks our oil addiction, creates competition and value for consumers, strengthens our national security, creates American jobs and will the lead the world toward effective climate protection.
Governor Richardson has a record of accomplishment on each of these challenges. As Energy Secretary, he pushed for aggressive energy efficiency standards, conservation in the midst of the California electricity crisis, a national renewable portfolio standard, and development of new vehicle technology.
As Governor of New Mexico, Bill Richardson has initiated mandates requiring utilities to meet standards of renewable energy production, supported generous solar, biodiesel and biofuel tax incentives, eliminated sales taxes on hybrid vehicles, and set aggressive targets to reduce global warming pollution. New Mexico is on track to exceed the Kyoto Protocols and has become the Clean Energy State.
"As a diplomat and negotiator, I have a record of dealing successfully with hostage-takers and tyrants," stated Governor Richardson. "Now I want to bring that experience to the task of freeing the United States from its status as international hostage to costly energy...and from the tyranny of oil dependence."
"I have a record, I have the will, and I am making this a central priority in my campaign for president," stated Governor Richardson.
After the Governor's speech today the League of Conservation Voters released a statement applauding Governor Richardson's plan. To read the statement please go to 