The Clinton campaign today announced the launch of Veterans and Military Retirees for Hillary, a national initiative to highlight Clinton's support of the men and women of our Armed Services. Medal of Honor winner and Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye will lead the national steering committee, which will advise the campaign on policy and outreach to the 26 million American veterans and their families.
"I have had the privilege of working with Hillary Clinton since 1993, and her depth of experience makes her uniquely qualified to be President," Senator Inouye said. "She has been a tireless advocate for our soldiers and veterans, fighting for life-saving body armor when they deploy, and the healthcare and benefits they deserve when they return home.
"My support of Hillary Clinton does not take away from, or speak any less of, the other Democratic Presidential candidates. They are all outstanding leaders, and, in fact, some are personal family friends. There is an excitement present among Democrats as we look ahead to the Presidential campaign, and a retaking of the White House on behalf of working families in 2008. I look forward to a vigorous campaign, and I believe Hillary Clinton is the best prepared to deal with the challenges facing our nation at home and abroad."
Clinton has been a longtime advocate for veterans, calling attention to Gulf War Syndrome as First Lady, and leading efforts in Congress to provide life-saving armor for our troops and their vehicles in Iraq. She recently proposed a new GI Bill of Rights, which would expand opportunities for veterans to pursue education and home ownership and provide low-interest loans to start their own businesses. Her bill would also cut red tape for military personnel to receive the benefits and the healthcare they need, and crack down on predatory lenders who target military families.
"The challenge for our nation now is complex -- we need a candidate who understands the issues and can get things done. Senator Clinton is the candidate," said Congressman Joe Sestak, a former three-star Admiral and 31-year Navy veteran.
"Hillary Clinton is a strong leader who can protect our nation while rebuilding our relationships abroad," said Retired Army Lt. General Kennedy, the first woman to be appointed a three-star General. "Her life-long commitment to health care and better lives for children, along with her commitment to America's men and women in uniform and veterans, makes her well suited to be our next President."
Korean War veteran and Purple Heart recipient Congressman Charlie Rangel said, "I've worked closely with Hillary Clinton as a Senator and First Lady, and I've seen firsthand her commitment to veterans and their families. She has the experience and toughness to lead this nation from her first day in the Oval Office."
Hillary's growing Steering Committee includes veterans of World War II, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan and Iraq.
U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye (Hawaii)

Veteran, World War II Combat Veteran, Recipient: Medal of Honor
U.S. Congressman Charlie Rangel (New York)

Veteran, US Army, 1948-52
U.S. Congressman Joe Sestak (Pennsylvania)

Veteran, Retired US Navy Admiral

Commanded Aircraft Carrier Battle Group, Afganistan
U.S. Congressman Ed Towns (New York)

Veteran, US Army, 1956-58
U.S. Congressman Jose Serrano (New York)

Veteran, US Army, 1964-66
U.S. Congressman Maurice Hinchey (New York)

Veteran, US Navy 1956-59
Honorable Togo West (District of Columbia)

Former Secretary of Veterans Affairs

Former Secretary of the Army

North Carolina Native
Honorable John Dalton (District of Columbia)

Veteran, United States Navy

Former Secretary of the Navy
Lt. General Claudia Kennedy, Ret. (South Carolina)

Veteran, Three Star General, Highest Rank Achieved by Female

Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence
General George Buskirk, Ret. (Indiana)

Veteran, Adjutant General, Indiana Army and Air National Guard
Honorable Vernon Weaver (Florida)

Veteran, World War II and Korea

Former Ambassador to the European Union

Former Naval Academy Board of Visitors
Larry Romo (Texas)

Veteran, US Air Force Reserve, DNC Veterans and Military Families

Texas Democratic Veterans Chair
Joe J. Bernal (Texas)

Veteran, World War II

Former Texas State Senator, Member State Board of Education
Kate Wilder (Virginia)

Veteran, Female Green Beret
Lanon Baccam (Iowa)

Veteran, U.S. Army National Guard, Afganistan 2004 - 05

DNC Veterans and Families Advisory Council
Chuck Fulkerson (Nevada)

Veteran, Two Vietnam Tours, NV Distinguished Service Medal

Founded Veterans Guest House, Served as E.D. of NV Office of Veterans Service
Wayne Smith (Nevada)

Veteran, Air Force Master Sergeant,

Southwest Asia Service Medal 1991 (Married in USAF over 18 years ago)
Val Smith (Nevada)

Veteran, Air Force Staff Sergeant, Member Disabled American Veterans

Southwest Asia Service Medal 1991 (Married in USAF over 18 years ago)
Phil Lisagor (Nevada)

Veteran, Officer, Army Reserve, Two Tours in Iraq

Chief Surgeon
Bob Hannan (New Hampshire)

Veteran, Airforce Captain, Vietnam, Bronze Star
Eleanor Kjellman, (New Hampshire)

Veteran, US Air Force Officer

Son served in Iraq
Joe Wynn (District of Columbia)

Veteran, US Air Force, Viet Nam

Leader of National Assn of Black Veterans, President Vets Group
Bill White (New York)

President, Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund
Senator Clinton has a long history of fighting for our veterans. She believes that once service members have fulfilled their duty to our country, our country must fulfill it's obligation to them. As First Lady, Hillary called attention to Gulf War Syndrome. As the first member of the Senate Armed Services Committee from New York, she has traveled overseas to witness firsthand the incredible honor and courage of our troops. And in the Senate, she has consistently taken a leading role in improving mental health services, access to medical care, family benefits, and assistance in transitioning to civilian life for our veterans.
As a presidential candidate, Hillary's veterans agenda includes:
In the Senate, Hillary has championed legislation to improve the lives of our veterans and their families. She has secured funding for Veterans' hospitals, and secured additional support for disabled veterans. She also successfully fought off the Administration's proposal to double the co-payment for prescription drugs of certain veterans.
She created a health tracking system for all active duty personnel and Reservists to ensure that they receive regular check ups; and expanded access to military healthcare benefits (TRICARE) for all Guard and Reserve members whether they are on active duty or not in order to prevent another illness like Gulf War Syndrome.
She successfully passed her Heroes at Home legislation, which helps family members learn to support loved ones suffering from Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), identify ways to help Guardsmen and Reservists transition back to civilian jobs, and assess the mental health challenges -- including PTSD -- faced by members of the Guard and Reserve. Hillary's initiative improves the detection, assessment and treatment of traumatic brain injury and expands support systems for members and former members of the Armed Services with traumatic brain injury and their families.
She passed legislation to increase the military survivor benefit from $12,000 to $100,000.
Clinton successfully worked to address veterans' mental health needs. In part as a result of her efforts, the Veterans Administration will be directed to take into consideration the needs and concerns of Veterans as it proceeds with the CARES process.
Hilary wrote to Postmaster General John Potter, and launched a petition on her website to urge the Postmaster General to continue issuing the Purple Heart stamp. Hundreds of people signed the petition which were then delivered to Postmaster General John Potter. As a result, the U.S. Postal Service decided to continue printing the Purple Heart Stamp despite the recent rate change.
In recognition of her efforts, the American Legion named Senator Clinton an "unsung hero" of the 108th congress for her leadership in securing record increases in funding for veterans health care.