 The President congratulated graduates and their families, praised the Coast Guard's excellence in times of disaster and in the War on Terror, and discussed the bold action we have taken at home and abroad to keep the American people safe.He also discussed intelligence regarding the consequences of an al Qaeda victory in Iraq and detailed examples of al Qaeda's efforts, including Osama bin Laden's attempt to establish a terrorist cell in Iraq that would conduct attacks against other nations.
 
 Our intelligence community believes that al Qaeda sees victory in Iraq as a religious and strategic imperative. This would allow al Qaeda to follow through on their stated goals of turning Iraq into a base from which to overthrow moderate governments in the region, impose their hateful ideology on millions, and launch new attacks on America and other nations.
 
 Osama bin Laden sent Iraqi-born terrorist Abd Al-Hadi Al-Iraqi to Iraq.
 While it is tempting to believe that the calm here at home since 9/11 means that the danger to our country has passed.
 Our intelligence community believes this plot was just two to three weeks away from execution and could have rivaled 9/11 in the death and destruction caused.
I
 Our intelligence community believes Ali Salih al-Mari had training in poisons at an al Qaeda camp in Afghanistan and had been sent by 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammad ("KSM") to the United States before 9/11 to serve as a sleeper agent ready for follow-on attacks. Our intelligence community believes KSM brought Ali Salih to meet Osama bin Laden, to whom he pledged loyalty. Our intelligence community also believes he and KSM discussed potential attacks on water reservoirs, the New York Stock Exchange, and U.S. military academies.
 We are determined to stop the world's most dangerous people from striking America with the world's most dangerous weapons.To help stop new attacks on our country, we have:
 In Afghanistan, a regime that gave sanctuary and support to al Qaeda as they planned the 9/11 attacks has come to an end. And in Iraq, we removed a cruel dictator who harbored terrorists, paid the families of Palestinian suicide bombers, invaded his neighbors, defied the UN Security Council, and pursued and used weapons of mass destruction.