Hillary Clinton was endorsed today by the Women's Campaign Forum, a bipartisan group dedicated to identifying and promoting women candidates for elected office. The Forum joins other prominent national women's organizations supporting Clinton, including EMILY's List, the National Organization for Women PAC, the National Women's Political Caucus, the Women's Political Committee and the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee.
"The Women's Campaign Forum is proud to endorse Hillary Clinton for President of the United States," said Ilana Goldman, President of the Women's Campaign Forum. "We could not ask for a better candidate. She is simply the most qualified and experienced candidate in the field for the White House and she demonstrates it each day of the campaign. She shows that women can succeed at the highest levels. Hillary Clinton is an inspiration for our daughters and for women across the country who are running -- or considering running -- for elected office."
"Hillary Clinton has shown that she does not just walk the walk, but she talks the talk -- in fact, she's leading the march," said Senator Barbara Mikulski, a national chair of the Clinton campaign. "She sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act to ensure that women get equal pay for equal work. She sponsored the Prevention First Act to ensure that women have access to reproductive health services. She fought the Bush administration to make Plan B emergency contraception available over the counter. She passed legislation to expand the S-CHIP program to provide more children with health insurance, and is working for another expansion to cover all children. I am proud to see so many women leaders from across the country join me in supporting Hillary."
"I am grateful for the outpouring of support I've received from The Women's Campaign Forum and women across the country," Clinton said. "I will continue to reach out to women and all Americans who are ready for change, and ask them to join me in renewing America's promise."
The Forum's endorsement is the latest show of support from national women's groups and an unprecedented number of women elected officials from across the country in their support for Senator Clinton's historic bid. As former First Lady of Iowa Christie Vilsack said, "Hillary has earned our support for her lifetime of work on issues important to women and families."
A sampling of women elected officials supporting Hillary includes (list in formation):