 – At Greene Central High School in Snow Hill, North Carolina, Senator John Edwards today announced his plan to make college more affordable for millions of students. Edwards' College Opportunity Agenda includes a national "College for Everyone" initiative, which would pay for one year of public-college tuition, fees, and books for any student who is willing to work hard and stay out of trouble.
"The chance to go to college meant everything in my life, and I want every young person to have the same chance," said Edwards. "Unfortunately, for too many families, this chance is out of reach. College for Everyone will open the door to a higher education for millions of young people, so they have the opportunity to realize the American Dream. Every young person who is willing to work hard should have the chance to get an education and get ahead."
The initiative is based on the College for Everyone pilot program in Greene County, North Carolina, that helps pay for the first year of college for young people who agree to work at least 10 hours a week. Edwards first talked about the idea in his 2004 presidential campaign. The program was launched in the fall of 2005 by the Center for Promise and Opportunity Foundation, a North Carolina nonprofit organization, and has already helped dozens of Greene Central High School students go to college. Edwards was in Greene County today to talk to Greene Central seniors participating in the College for Everyone program. More than 125 students from this year's graduating class are expected to go to college in the fall with the help of College for Everyone. The projected college-going rate for Greene Central seniors has increased from 54 percent before the program started to 74 percent today.
In addition to College for Everyone, Edwards proposed a series of initiatives to help students prepare and apply for college as part of his College Opportunity Agenda. Edwards would:
For more information, please read the fact sheet below.
"In America, every child should be able to go as far as his God-given talents and hard work will take him. As the first in my family to go to college, I know that our system of public education should be our sturdiest ladder of opportunity." – John Edwards
College has never been more important. College graduates can expect to earn $1 million more over their lifetimes than high school graduates, and their children are almost twice as likely to attend college themselves. However, an estimated 200,000 college-qualified graduates fail to attend college each year. Students from high-income families are five times more likely to enroll in college than their low-income peers. College-age black and Hispanic Americans are only about half as likely to be enrolled. Students who do go to college now leave with more than $19,000 in debt, twice as much as a decade ago. [College Summit, 2007; Dynarski, 1999; NACAC, 2005; Project on Student Debt, 2007]
Today, John Edwards released his plan to make college more affordable for millions of students. Speaking at Greene Central High School -- where he congratulated high school seniors participating in the "College for Everyone" pilot program -- he proposed a national College for Everyone program to pay for one year of public college for students willing to take a part-time job. He also proposed reforming student loans to eliminate bank subsidies, making applying for financial aid easier, and expanding access to college counselors.
In the fall of 2005, John Edwards helped start a College for Everyone pilot program at Greene Central High School in Snow Hill, North Carolina. The program was launched by the Center for Promise and Opportunity Foundation, a North Carolina nonprofit organization. Located in rural, eastern North Carolina, Greene County's income and education attainment are lower than North Carolina averages. Its school system has an above-average percentage of students who are economically disadvantaged.
The College for Everyone program is based on a proposal that Edwards first talked about in his 2004 presidential campaign. It helps pay for the first year of tuition, fees and books for college students who agree to work part-time. Students must also complete coursework that prepares them for further education, stay out of trouble, and enroll in a participating public university or community college. The program works with College Summit and North Carolina's universities and community colleges. Last year the program announced that more than $300,000 in scholarship funding was available, and 72 students just completed their first year of college. More than 125 students from this year's graduating class are expected to college in the fall with the help of College for Everyone. The projected college-going rate for Greene Central seniors has increased from 54 percent before the program started to 74 percent today.
Today John Edwards proposed a series of initiatives to help all qualified students pay for college. His College Opportunity Agenda includes: