 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Romney for President today launched its newest television ad, "Now Is The Time." The ad highlights Governor Romney's support for strengthening our armed forces to meet a new generation of global challenges. Governor Romney has proposed expanding our armed forces by 100,000 soldiers and committing at least four percent of the gross domestic product to military spending.
The ad will begin airing today in Iowa, New Hampshire and on national cable networks. Scripts and viewing links are below.
 "This isn't the time for us to shrink from conservative principles.
"It's a time for us to stand in strength.
"America must remain the world's military superpower.
"If we lock our arms together, we can forge the political will to rebuild our military might.
"Now is the time for us to lead a great coalition of strength.
"For our families, for our future, for America.
"I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
: 
 
 "This isn't the time for us to shrink from conservative principles. It's time for us to stand in strength." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 
 "America must remain the world's military superpower. That is a first principle of conservatism." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 "A strong America helps secure a safe world. A strong America also requires a strong military and a strong economy." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The George Bush Presidential Library Center, College Station, TX, 4/10/07)
 
 "If we lock our arms together, we can forge the political will to rebuild our military might." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
 "First, we need a stronger military. I propose that we sharply increase our investment in national defense. I want to see at least 100,000 more troops. I want to see us finally make the long overdue investment in equipment, and armament, weapon systems, and strategic defense." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The George Bush Presidential Library Center, College Station, TX, 4/10/07)
 "What's the right amount to spend? Well, Secretary Gates has proposed a 10% increase for next year. Bravo. But we're going to need at least in my view an additional $30 to 40 billion per year over the next several years to modernize our military, to address our gaps in troop levels, and to ease the strain on our National Guard and our Reserves and of course to support our wounded soldiers. ... Based on my analysis, America should commit to spend a minimum, a minimum of 4% of gross domestic product on our national defense." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The George Bush Presidential Library Center, College Station, TX, 4/10/07)
 "Mitt Romney has called for adding 100,000 soldiers and boosting defense spending to four percent of GDP. These are sensible proposals, and we hope the other GOP candidates make similar ones." (Editorial, "Size Matters," 
, 4/16/07)
 
 "Now is the time for us to lead a great coalition of strength. For our families, for our future, for America." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Conservative Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/2/07)
: 