New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson today applauded Senator Hillary Clinton for agreeing that the Governor's proposal for Congress to de-authorize the Iraq War is the best chance Congress has of reversing the President's failed policy and getting US troops out of Iraq. The Governor urged Senator Clinton to also support his call for a complete withdrawal of US forces with no residual troops. Senator Clinton has previously proposed leaving thousands of US troops in Iraq for an undetermined length of time.
"As I said in my February speech to the DNC and have repeated many times since, this is the best course of action. It's the only way to avoid an endless 'Groundhog Day' cycle of legislation and veto that would not accomplish the goal of getting our troops out of Iraq," said Governor Richardson. "I welcome Senator Clinton's endorsement of my approach, and I urge Congress to embrace this course of action and show the President that his defiance of the will of the American people and a vote of Congress will not stand."
Governor Richardson also called for a resolution to be introduced immediately, not in October as proposed by Senators Byrd and Clinton.
Governor Richardson, a former Congressman, has been calling for Congress to de-authorize the Iraq War for several months. The Governor's plan calls for a complete withdrawal of US troops, coupled with intensive diplomacy to assure stability in the region and to facilitate ongoing reconstruction in Iraq.
Bill Richardson's 7 Point New Realism Plan for Iraq:
Congress must continue to use the power of the purse without cutting funds for troops on the ground, but we should also go one step further. Congress should assert its constitutional authority and pass a resolution de-authorizing the war under the War Powers Act. Congress can then set a military pull-out date and appropriate funds accordingly for the re-deployment of troops.
We also must bring our National Guard home where they are needed for homeland security, and we must focus our energy and resources on real threats, such as nuclear proliferation, Al Qaeda, public health, and global warming.