Ensuring secure, affordable supplies of energy and tackling climate change are central, interlinked global challenges facing the international community. Addressing these issues requires urgent, sustained global action and an integrated policy approach, using a wide range of regionally, nationally or internationally defined policy tools and measures. We are determined to ensure access to affordable, clean, and secure sources of energy to underpin sustainable global economic growth and to protect our environment. Tackling the challenge of energy security will also require unprecedented international cooperation in several areas, including increasing energy efficiency, market transparency, diversifying energy supplies – including the share of renewable energies – and protecting and maintaining the world's energy supply system.
We are committed to the ultimate objective of stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system, and we acknowledge the recent work of the IPCC. The respective responsibilities of industrialized and major emerging economies require strengthened action according to our national circumstances. Developing and commercializing advanced technologies will allow us to slow, stabilize and then significantly cut net global emissions of greenhouse gases. This requires strong economies and a wide range of policy instruments, including market based instruments, to generate technology investment and commercialization and achieve emission reductions. To achieve these objectives, we will work together and with other nations to deliver results in our global efforts to confront climate change through the upcoming G8 summit in Heiligendamm, our numerous multilateral partnerships, and by promoting a constructive agenda for the UNFCCC Conference in Indonesia in December 2007.
We especially note the importance of advancing energy efficiency, near-zero emissions coal and renewables, including biofuels, in improving our energy security and reducing anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases. Nuclear energy can also contribute to reaching these goals in countries that decide to use this option. We therefore affirm our commitment to accelerate the transformation of our energy infrastructure so that we can effectively tackle the interlinked challenges of climate change, energy security, and clean and sustainable development. As we usher in this Age of Energy Transformation, we will act together in true partnership to advance our shared climate, sustainable development, and energy security goals, using a mix of nationally, regionally or internationally defined policy tools to research, develop, deploy and commercialize clean energy technologies that will change the way we power our homes, businesses, and automobiles.
Our common goals for clean energy development and commercialization in the near and medium-term include, but are not limited to, the following sectors:
To advance our common goals, we have identified the following priorities for a transatlantic partnership on clean energy and climate change, bearing in mind our commitments under the UNFCCC, G8, International Energy Agency and other frameworks and processes:
To implement these transatlantic priorities, we commit to the following actions:
To better understand the effectiveness of the wide range of policy instruments, the United States will host with the EU this year a climate and clean energy policy and measures forum, composed of senior policy officials, to discuss the policy and technical aspects of different market mechanisms, including but not limited to emissions trading, taxation, and incentives, and other regulatory programs, public-private partnerships, and technology initiatives.
We also commit under the Montreal Protocol to seek to speed up the recovery of the ozone layer by accelerating the phase-out of HCFCs. We will weigh the impact of our proposals on climate change and energy efficiency. In working together toward our shared goal of speeding ozone recovery, we recognize that the Clean Development Mechanism impacts emissions of ozone-depleting substances.
We note that our domestic efforts, while important, will not by themselves be sufficient to reverse the significant growth trend in global greenhouse gases. We, therefore, will work together to unleash markets that will speed up the transfer of clean energy technology to developing countries. We reaffirm the goal that our Leaders set at the G8 Summit at Sea Island in 2004 to reduce barriers to the international flow of goods and materials for recycling and remanufacturing, recycled and remanufactured products, and cleaner, more efficient technologies, consistent with existing environmental and trade obligations and frameworks.
We will strengthen cooperation on the global phase-out of leaded gasoline and promotion of low-sulfur diesel through the Partnership for Clean Fuels and Vehicles. We also will reinforce our cooperation on hydrogen notably through IPHE (the International Partnership for the Hydrogen Economy). We will also continue our ongoing collaboration on nuclear power through the Generation-IV International Forum and International Nuclear Energy Research Initiative.
We reaffirm our commitment to international cooperation on global observation and will continue to exercise leadership in the development of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS), including working to strengthen weather observing, climate and air quality monitoring, and forecasting for human health, global disaster preparedness and monitoring, and drought monitoring and forecasting. We encourage participation in the November 30, 2007 Fourth Earth Observation Ministerial in Capetown, South Africa.
We will reach agreement on transatlantic research cooperation under the bilateral EU-U.S. Science and Technology Agreement, including: (1) enhance existing research programs in energy and environment collaboration in areas of mutual interest, and if appropriate, revision of relevant implementing arrangements, as needed; (2) examine international grant funding mechanisms with the aim of eliminating obstacles and develop practical proposals to broadly publicize research solicitations and better coordinate, where appropriate, research activities through mechanisms, such as coordinated calls for transatlantic clean energy research; (3) work to more closely coordinate research agendas on both sides of the Atlantic in line with the priorities identified at the 9th February 2007 meeting of the EU-U.S. High Level Joint Consultative Group on S&T.
Cooperation should focus on:
We committed in Vienna in 2006 to a set of agreed principles to increase transparency in global energy markets, enhance energy efficiency, diversify the energy mix and ensure the security of critical energy infrastructure. Today, we reaffirm those principles and commit to conducting a periodic stocktaking of our performance in abiding by and implementing them.
Key to maintaining affordable and secure supplies of energy to power our economic growth and facilitate the development of new technologies is sound management of our existing energy mix. The security of the energy supplies of the United States and European Union are directly impacted by actors and events beyond our borders as well as by our own regulatory and technology mixes. We must, therefore, intensify our cooperation to:
We will convene a public-private meeting, composed of our senior government officials, business leaders, and scientific and technical experts, focusing on the priority areas identified in this statement. Options available to us include, but are not limited to, inviting CEOs to participate in our ongoing high-level dialogues, holding a public-private sector event associated with the proposed international renewables conference, and/or convening a stand-alone meeting. We will also use the U.S.-EU Energy Technology CEO forum that was launched by the U.S. Department of State and the German Foreign Ministry in March as a foundation for this effort.