WASHINGTON, April 27, 2007 – The White House announced today that thirty-two outstanding individuals from across the country have been selected as National Finalists for the 2007-2008 White House Fellows Program – one of the nation's most prestigious programs for leadership and public service. The National Finalists represent a diverse cross-section of professions, including business, medicine, law, non-profit sector, media, state government, finance, and education. Additionally, four branches of the military are represented among the National Finalists. A complete list of the National Finalists appears below.
The White House Fellows Program, founded in 1964 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, offers exceptional young men and women first-hand experience working at the highest levels of the federal government. Fellows participate in an education program consisting of roundtable discussions with leaders from the private and public sectors, and study trips to examine U.S. policy in action. Following the Fellowship year, the Fellows repay the privilege by contributing to the country as better national leaders and public servants.
Selection as a White House Fellow is highly competitive and based on a record of remarkable professional achievement, evidence of leadership skills, a strong commitment to public service, and the knowledge and skills necessary to contribute successfully at the highest levels of the federal government. The program has fostered leaders in many fields, including Former Secretary of State Colin Powell; Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao; Former CNN President Tom Johnson; United Nations Foundation President and Former U.S. Senator Timothy Wirth; Pulitzer Prize winning author Doris Kearns Goodwin; Former Supreme Allied Commander for Europe Wesley K. Clark; U.S. Senator Samuel Brownback; and U.S. Representative Joe L. Barton.
Additional information about the program is located at 
.
 Resident Physician, Harvard Radiation Oncology Program; 
 Southfield, MI
 Global Project Finance Senior Associate, Clifford Chance US, LLP; Washington, DC
 US Navy Officer; New Rochelle, NY
 Vice President, Investment Banking Division, Morgan Stanley; Boosier City, LA
 Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholar; College Station, TX
 US Air Force Officer; Carroll, IA
 US Marine Corps Officer; Clinton, NY
 US Air Force Officer; Huntington, NY
 US Air Force Officer; Marietta, GA
 US Army Officer; San Jose, CA
 Director, Oracle Corporation; Enfield, CT
 US Air Force Officer; Chesterland, OH
 US Air Force Officer; Bastrop, LA
 MPA candidate, Harvard Unversity; Chicago, IL
 US Army Officer; Akron, OH
 General Manager, ZGB Communications; North Bergen, NJ
 Washington State Patrol Officer; Olympia, WA
 Engagement Director, George Group Counsulting LP; Kennebunk, ME
 Associate, Investment Banking Division, Credit Suisse Securities, LLC; Lancaster, CA
 Senior Vice President of Operations, American Stock Transfer and Trust Company; Brooklyn, NY
 William C. Foster Fellow; Fallbrook, CA
 Teacher, Bronx Charter School for the Arts; Princeton, NJ
 Physician, Department of Emergency Medicine, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center; Chicago, IL
 President, DNA Business Services; Jacksonville, FL
 Project Engineer, Walt Disney World Design and Engineering; Celebration, FL
 Chief Operating Officer, National Alliance for Public Charter Schools; Arnold, MD
 US Army Officer; Eau Claire, WI
 US Air Force Officer; Baltimore, MD
 Visiting Scholar and Economic Analyst, New York University Department of Economics; Claremont, NH
 US Navy Officer; Murfreesboro, TN
 US Navy Officer; Derry, NH
 US Army Officer; Smithfield, VA