 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 
 
 
 While there is a threat of nuclear material from nations like Iran falling into the hands of terrorists, we must be vigilant in preventing terrorists and Jihadists from acquiring what are commonly known as "loose nukes." To guard against this nuclear peril, Governor Romney has proposed several new initiatives including:
 
 The Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism, which was launched last year, was a good start. Yet our efforts need to be greatly accelerated and expanded. Combating the threat of nuclear terrorism needs to be a top Presidential priority.
 Governor Romney would appoint a new Ambassador-at-Large to Prevent Nuclear Terror. He or she would have the authority and resources needed to work across government agencies and departments to ensure that our strategies both here and abroad are coordinated.
 Governor Romney would promote an international initiative to develop a new body of international law making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity, on a par with genocide and war crimes. With universal jurisdiction, charges can be brought up in any court, preventing traffickers from hiding in complicit or weak countries. Already, people have been caught attempting to smuggle nuclear materials for sale on the black market. Their acts should not be dismissed as routine violations of the law.
 Nuclear power can be inexpensive and clean. Countries seeking to use nuclear power for peaceful purposes should reaffirm their commitment to non-proliferation. For years, the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty has been at the centerpiece of this effort. But because of recent technological and political developments, we need to update our efforts for the 21st century, including a new commitment to stringent security regimes.
 Governor Romney believes we must engage Russia in a frank and open discussion about the serious and disturbing turn of events in their country. At the same time, we must continue to partner with Russia in securing their vast amount of nuclear material. Russia must play a central role in any effort to prevent nuclear terrorism.
 The United States should take the lead in organizing and financing an international fuel bank to guarantee low-cost supplies of nuclear reactor fuel to countries willing to adhere to heightened security and safety standards. Working with the International Atomic Energy Agency, this initiative would promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy while providing new safeguards against diversion of fissile materials to terrorists.
 The Administration deserves recognition for restricting access to banking and credit services. Other nations must act now to follow our lead. In addition, Governor Romney has called for strategic divestment from companies that support the Iranian regime's dangerous actions. As the world's financial center, no state could have a bigger impact than New York. After a new state Comptroller was named for New York, Governor Romney wrote the Comptroller, Governor Spitzer and Senators Schumer and Clinton urging them to join in the effort to stop New York pension funds from aiding Iran's efforts.
 Their leaders should be made to feel like those of Apartheid South Africa. Until there are indications that high level engagement would do anything other than reward bad behavior, the United States should not engage Iran in direct, bilateral negotiations over their nuclear weapons program. Finally, Iran's President Ahmadinejad should be indicted under the terms of the Genocide Convention for incitement to genocide.
 These states should support Iraq's government; turn down the temperature of the Arab-Israeli conflict; stop the financial and weapons flows to Hamas and Hezbollah; and tell the Palestinians to drop their terror campaign and recognize Israel's right to exist.
 If nuclear material from their nation falls into the hands of terrorists and is used, it would provoke a devastating response from the civilized world. The military option remains on the table.
 We must work with moderate Muslim communities and leaders to build a lasting Partnership for Prosperity and Progress.