 From the Senate: Senator Clinton Continues Fight for Our Troops and Veterans Visit to three Upstate New York VA & Military Installations Kicks off Week of Continued Focus on Troop & Veterans Issues



Senator has authored legislative package to help U.S. troops and their families to transition after deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today kicked off a week of continued focus on issues affecting our men and women in uniform. Visiting Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Centers in Syracuse and Canandaigua, NY, and then visit Ft. Drum, home of the Army's 10th Mountain Division, the Senator highlighted the need to provide support to our troops and their families.
Senator Clinton recently introduced a package of legislation aimed at helping U.S. troops and their families to transition after deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan, including;
"When our brave men and women go to war, they should expect to be supported before they leave and be treated as heroes when they return, with the promise of adequate assistance and healthcare. That is the promise our country must keep to the men and women who enlist, who fight, and who return home often bearing the visible and invisible scars of sacrifice. This should be a time when we do more for our troops and their families, not less," Senator Clinton said.
"These bills will help our soldiers and their families if they suffer or are wounded, they will help to ensure that wounded soldiers receive the disability benefits they need and deserve and they will help protect military family financial benefits if a loved one is deployed," Senator Clinton said. "After visiting today with our brave troops and seeing firsthand what they are coping with, I am even more convinced that we must show them - not just tell them - that we are grateful for their service to our country."
On Thursday, in Washington, DC, Senator Clinton will also attend a Joint Hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee to receive testimony on the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs disability rating systems and the transition of service members from the Department of Defense to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Senator Clinton's legislative package includes:
Senator Clinton's legislation will build on the groundbreaking "Heroes at Home" initiative she authored and secured in law last year aimed at helping U.S. troops and their families to transition after deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan and get the help they need with readjustment to work and coping with post-traumatic stress disorder and TBI.
Senator Clinton's new initiative will expand Heroes at Home by:
The Heroes at Home Act of 2007 is endorsed by the Wounded Warrior Project, National Military Families Association, Military Officers Association of America, American Academy of Neurology and Brain Injury Association of America.
Following up on complaints she heard from New York soldiers at Walter Reed about widespread problems with disability claims, Senator Clinton today introduced legislation that will restore disability benefits for wounded and injured members of the Armed Forces. The act will direct reviews of disability claims, traumatic injury claims and the Physical Evaluation Board process, and re-open cases that warrant an increased disability benefit rating or traumatic injury payment. In addition, the bill will increase the availability of legal counsel for members appealing their disability cases, and direct the GAO to investigate efforts currently being made by the Department of Defense to address deficiencies in the Disability Evaluation Systems; the adequacy of the Department of Veterans Affairs Disability Schedule for Ratings as it relates to the nature of wounds our warriors suffer in combat today; and to report on the standards and procedures of Physical Evaluation Boards.
Senator Clinton also introduced legislation that will protect financial benefits for military family members by closing gaps in coverage for Death Gratuity and Survivor Benefits beneficiaries and improve pre-deployment counseling and services for all members of the Armed Forces. Everyday single parents deploy to distant battlefields and leave their minor children in the care of a financially ill-prepared guardian or caretaker. Unfortunately, when tragedy strikes and a military servicemember makes the ultimate sacrifice, minor dependent children and families are excluded from receiving benefits and entitlements. In too many cases, pre-deployment systems and processes designed to protect military family financial benefits are under-resourced or not available and create unnecessary burden for survivors. Senator Clinton's bill will require each military service to provide adequate pre-deployment counseling and services to every deploying member of the Armed Forces to ensure that families and dependents receive survivor benefits and entitlements.
These bills are supported by the Wounded Warrior Project, National Military Families Association, Military Officers Association of America, American Legion and the Gold Star Mothers.
As New York's first Senator to serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Clinton has made it one of her top priorities to ensure that our brave men and women in uniform have the healthcare and support they need. She has pressed for an independent investigation of the conditions at Walter Reed and called for a new GI Bill of Rights to once again honor the service and invest in the future of our men and women in uniform. She authored legislation signed into law last year that required an audit of widespread pay issues wounded soldiers are facing, recently released by the Army showing continuing problems. Senator Clinton has fought to ensure servicemembers have the body armor they need. She has also secured in law access to TRICARE military health benefits for all drilling members of the National Guard and Reserves and their families.
As New York's first Senator to serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator Clinton has made it one of her top priorities to ensure that our brave men and women in uniform have the healthcare and support they need. She has called for a new GI Bill of Rights to reenergize and renew our commitment to those who wear our uniform. She has been a leading voice for making sure our troops have adequate body armor. She has worked for healthcare that recognizes the new realities facing our men and women in uniform and that honors our responsibility to our veterans. She has been an advocate for wounded troops stuck in red tape, and she has worked to stop in their tracks those who prey on soldiers trying to do the right thing for their families. In recognition of tireless efforts, Senator Clinton has received numerous honors, including the Inspirational Leadership Award from the Military Order of the Purple Heart for her dedicated service to America's servicemembers and veterans.