 – On Saturday, April 7th, 2007, Senator John Edwards will release the first in a series of podcasts detailing his plans to change America. In his "Saturday Morning E-Casts," Edwards will discuss the challenges facing our nation and his specific plans to meet those challenges and bring about bold change in our country. On the first E-Cast, Edwards will announce his "Form 1" plan to overhaul the tax filing system by having the IRS calculate millions of families' tax bills and mail it to them on a "Form 1."
As tax day approaches, millions of Americans are trying to navigate the needlessly complex and confusing tax filing system or paying tax preparers to help with their taxes. Edwards believes we should make it easier for Americans to pay their taxes, so in his E-Cast he will announce his Form 1 plan to simplify the tax filing system.
For as many as 50 million Americans, the IRS gets all the information it needs to calculate taxes from employers and financial institutions. As part of Edwards' plan, the IRS would calculate the tax bill and mail it to them on a Form 1, where they could verify and recalculate it or simply sign and return it. Form 1 is a step toward Edwards' vision of a tax code that is simpler and fairer and that rewards work.
Edwards' Form 1 plan would also:
For more information on the plan, please see the fact sheet below.
The Saturday Morning E-Casts are a continuation of Edwards' efforts to use new technology to bring more Americans into the democratic process. Edwards was one of the first public figures to podcast, releasing his first podcast in March of 2005.
"Hard-working families who pay their taxes shouldn't have to pay tax preparers too. With 'Form 1,' there is only one thing you have to do - sign and return it." -- John Edwards
The American tax code is unnecessarily complicated and full of shelters and loopholes that favor wealth over work. While corporations and wealthy families can hire expensive accountants and lawyers, ordinary families face unnecessary obstacles in calculating and paying their taxes. It takes seven hours to complete even the simplest tax form, the 1040EZ. One-third of EZ filers pay tax preparers. Meanwhile, for tens of millions of taxpayers who file simple returns, the Internal Revenue Service already has all the data it needs (such as household size, wages, and interest income) to calculate the tax or refund due. [IRS, 2005; GAO, 2006]
In the first of a series of Saturday Morning E-Casts, John Edwards describes his plan to overhaul the tax filing system. Under his plan, the IRS will calculate millions of families' tax bills and mail it to them on a new "Form 1." Like a credit card bill, families could verify and recalculate it or simply sign and return it. Form 1 is part of Edwards' vision of a tax code that is simpler and fairer and rewards work.