 – As part of his ongoing effort to get more Americans involved in the fight against global warming, Senator John Edwards today launched the first in a series of activities to encourage Americans to conserve energy and cut their carbon emissions. As part of his energy plan, Edwards last month called for an 80 percent reduction in American carbon emissions by 2050. He also announced last month that he is making his campaign "carbon neutral" by taking steps to conserve energy and purchasing carbon offsets.
"The looming climate crisis is a serious threat - but if we have the courage to boldly change course we can transform it into a real opportunity for America," said Edwards. "It won't be easy, but it is time to ask the American people to be patriotic about something other than war. If we harness American ingenuity, we can emerge from the crisis of global warming with a new energy economy that stimulates innovation, brings the family farm back to life, and creates more than 1 million jobs in America's farms and industries."
In an email to supporters today, Edwards called on Americans to take personal responsibility for the climate crisis by signing his "Reduce Your Carbon" pledge at 
. The pledge encourages Americans to decrease their personal carbon emissions by taking simple steps, like replacing regular light bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs, weathering homes with caulk and keeping air filters clean.
Edwards will also draw attention to the issue of global warming on his upcoming "Saturday Morning E-Cast" to be released Saturday, April 14th, 2007. Edwards will discuss his energy plan to fight global warming and create a new energy economy and will encourage listeners to get involved in one of the campaign's many "Reduce Your Carbon" events being organized for Earth Day on April 22nd, 2007.
On Saturday, in Fort Myers, Florida, Edwards will also be speaking at a "Step it Up" rally to urge Congress to cut carbon emissions 80 percent by 2050. Americans from across the country will be participating in "Step it Up" rallies to encourage Congress to act immediately on this global crisis.
Last month, Edwards laid out an aggressive plan which halts global warming, achieves energy independence and jumpstarts a new energy economy by:
To read more about Edwards' energy plan, 
.