 – As Senator John Edwards began a three-day tour of Iowa to highlight his detailed new Rural Recovery Act, the campaign demonstrated its growing strength in Iowa with the announcement of Rural County Chairs for all 99 Iowa counties.
The Edwards campaign becomes the first—and only—2008 campaign in either party to recruit rural chairs for every county in the state, reflecting Edwards' broad support among Iowans. The coordinators will advise the campaign on issues of concern to rural families and help spread the word to their neighbors throughout the state about Edwards' detailed, specific plans for their communities. Edwards surprise second place finish in 2004 was due in part to his success in rural Iowa.
"Rural America has been ignored for too long," said Edwards. "Across America, too many small towns have turned into ghost towns. We need to help small towns and rural communities create and keep new businesses and good jobs, and we need a president who will make sure all our communities have good schools, good health care and the support systems they need. As president, I will make sure rural America is never left behind."
"Senator Edwards' comprehensive and detailed plan for rural America has earned him a strong base of support throughout rural Iowa," said Doug Bishop, County Treasurer and Rural County Chair for Jasper County. "He understands the unique challenges we face and is committed to building a thriving economy in every corner of our state. My fellow rural county chairs and I will do all we can to spread this message and help him achieve bold, transformational change for rural America."
Edwards' Rural Recovery Act would restore economic fairness and create new jobs and businesses in rural America, help struggling counties and towns and protect rural people and their way of life. A summary of the initiative is attached.
Edwards is discussing the initiative with Iowans in visits to Adel, Boone, Des Moines, Indianola, Muscatine, Mason City, Waterloo and Fort Dodge. This is Edwards' 22nd trip to Iowa since the beginning of 2005.
Edwards' 99 Rural County Chairs are: