 - To celebrate Earth Day, John Edwards One Corps groups from across the country are holding "Reduce Your Carbon" events today to urge members of their communities to sign a pledge to reduce their personal carbon emissions. Edwards recently launched a website, 
, which encourages Americans to decrease their personal carbon emissions by taking simple steps, like replacing regular light bulbs with fluorescent light bulbs, weathering homes with caulk and keeping air filters clean.
Edwards also released the following statement this Earth Day, urging Americans to take action in the fight against global warming.
"Global warming is an emergency that requires all of us to take action today. Without action, the coming decades will bring droughts, forest fires, and deadly heat waves. Global warming also threatens our national security - from worldwide conflicts over food, water, disease, and famine to instability here at home if droughts in Mexico cause large numbers of refugees, climate change has the potential to ignite a chain reaction of global instability.
"But this looming crisis also presents a great opportunity for America - we can stop global warming and launch a new energy economy at the same time, creating more than a million new jobs. To do that, we need to act now and adopt science-based caps on carbon emissions. We must cap global warming pollutants now, reducing pollution by 15 percent by 2020 and by 80 percent by 2050.
"We can't wait for somebody else to do this. Each of us can take responsibility in small ways to make a big difference. I encourage every American to do their part to conserve energy and fight global warming, not only on Earth Day, but every day. If we have the courage to act, we can lead the world toward clean, renewable energies and make America stronger still."
As part of his ongoing effort to fight global warming, Edwards announced last month that he is making his campaign "carbon neutral" by taking steps to conserve energy and purchasing carbon offsets. Edwards also participated in a "Step it Up" rally last week to urge Congress to cut carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050, the same reduction he has called for in his energy plan.
Last month, Edwards laid out an aggressive energy plan which halts global warming, achieves energy independence and jumpstarts a new energy economy by:
For more details on Edwards' energy plan, please see the fact sheet below.
Our generation must be the one that ends our nation's dependence on oil and ushers in a new energy economy. We need energy independence from unstable and hostile areas of the world, from global warming pollution, and from the old ways of doing business. If we harness American ingenuity to reach for transformative change, we can emerge from the crisis of global warming with a new energy economy that stimulates innovation, brings the family farm back to life, and creates more than 1 million jobs in America's farms and industries. Today, John Edwards called for America to embrace three great goals for this generation:
As a result of the Edwards plan, by 2025 America will import 7.5 million fewer barrels of oil a day, produce 65 billion gallons of ethanol and other biofuels a year, generate 25 percent of our electricity from renewable sources, and produce more than 2 billion fewer tons of carbon dioxide emissions a year. Within a generation, America's cars and tracks will be virtually petroleum-free.
The planet has gotten nearly 1 degree Fahrenheit hotter over the past 30 years and will get another degree hotter due to greenhouse gas pollution already in the atmosphere. The ten hottest years on record have all occurred since 1990. If we don't change course soon, we will see dramatic climate changes and a different planet. The last time the Earth was 4 or 5 degrees warmer -- 3 million years ago -- there was no ice in the Arctic and sea levels were 80 feet higher. [Hansen, 2/26/2007; NRDC, 2007]
To lead the world toward a new, effective climate change treaty, Edwards will:
In the past, America squandered opportunities to lead the world in energy technology. Bell Labs invented the solar cell in New Jersey in 1954, but today 90 percent of solar panels are manufactured overseas. GM made the first modern electric car, but today Toyota and Honda lead the world in hybrid cars. Oil companies are slow to sell alternative fuels at their gas stations, while Brazil increased the share of new cars that run on ethanol from 4 percent to 70 percent in only three years. [Economist, 3/10/2007; HybridCars.com, 2007; GM, 2007; Edmunds.com, 2007; Khosla, 2006]
John Edwards believes that American entrepreneurs, farmers and manufacturers can lead the world in technology to generate clean, reliable energy and use it more efficiently. "Clean tech" is the hottest new area of venture capital funding. California-based Tesla Motors sells an electric roadster that gets 135 miles a gallon and can go from 0-to-60 in four seconds. In rural America, hundreds of small renewable energy companies are generating new jobs in ethanol and other biofuels, wind, and solar. The increased demand for the machinery of renewable energy -- such as wind turbines, solar panels and biomass engines -- is an opportunity to create "green collar" jobs and reenergize America's manufacturing sector. [Newsweek, 6/21/2006; Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, 2006; Makower, Pernick, and Wilder, 2006; Apollo Alliance, 2006]
To open up the grid to innovation, Edwards will:
Americans can get more power out of the electricity now available, typically at half the cost of producing more supply. Duke Energy CEO James Rogers calls efficiency the "fifth fuel," and energy expert Amory Lovins says that "efficiency is cheaper than fuel." Between 1977 and 1985, the economy grew by 27 percent while oil use fell by 17 percent. Once again, there are large energy savings possible today in energy generation, transmission, and use in homes, factories, and offices. For example, if every home installed five compact fluorescent lightbulbs, it would eliminate the need for 21 power plants. However, in our current system, utilities earn profits by selling power not meeting energy needs more efficiently. Ordinary Americans often lack the tools they need to use energy more efficiently. [ACEEE, 2006; Reicher, 2007; Globe and Mail, 2/24/2007; The New Yorker, 1/22/2007; McKinsey, 2006]