 By encouraging cooperative conservation, innovation, and new technologies, this Administration has compiled a strong environmental record. Because of the President's efforts, America's air is cleaner, our water is purer, our natural resources are better protected, and we are taking positive steps to confront the important challenge of climate change. For example:
 
 
 This goal requires progress on two fronts: reforming fuel economy standards for cars to make our use of gasoline more efficient, and harnessing the power of technology to increase the use of alternative fuels. Reaching this goal will help address climate change concerns by reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars, light trucks, and SUVs.
 The President's National Parks Centennial Initiative will enhance our parks leading up to their 100th anniversary by providing up to $3 billion in public and private investment over 10 years. The Initiative includes a Federal commitment of $100 million per year over 10 years for improvements to our parks. In addition, the President's Centennial Challenge urges individuals, foundations, and the private sector to help support the parks by contributing $100 million annually for 10 years. The President's FY 2008 Budget proposes matching these contributions.
 This funding would increase by over 50 percent the protected acreage under the Wetlands Reserve Program, create a Regional Water Enhancement Program, and sustain the Conservation Reserve Program.
 This initiative would significantly reduce air pollution from these engines by cutting particulate matter by 90 percent and nitrogen oxides emissions by 80 percent.
 
 His policies seek to reduce carbon monoxide and cancer-causing benzene emissions and can lead to a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from cars, light trucks, and SUVs.
 President Bush has committed to reducing U.S. greenhouse gas intensity 18 percent by 2012, and we are well on track to meet this goal. According to the Energy Information Agency, U.S. greenhouse gas emissions increased only 0.6 percent between 2004 and 2005 (compared to an average annual 1 percent increase over the 1990-2005 period), and greenhouse gas intensity decreased 2.5 percent.