Today in New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton announced an agenda to help parents balance work and family and ensure that Americans aren't faced with a choice between keeping their job and caring for a newborn baby.
"Too many Americans feel trapped between being a good parent and being a good worker," Clinton said. "It's about time we stopped just talking about family values and started pursuing policies that truly value families. All Americans who are working hard and taking responsibility deserve the chance to do right by their children.
"With sound policies and sensible investments, we can give parents more choices to make the decisions that are best for them. We can make life a little easier for everyone – for mothers and for fathers – to do the most important job there is in any society: raising and nurturing the next generation. And that's the right decision for all of us."
Hillary's plan would set an ambitious goal for all states to implement a paid family leave program by the year 2016, and offer $1 billion per year in grants to encourage innovative paid family leave programs at the state level. Hillary would also extend the Family Medical Leave Act to cover 13 million additional workers across the country, and guarantee every American worker seven days of paid sick leave to help them deal with a health crisis faced by themselves or their children.
Access to quality, affordable child care is critical for parents seeking to fulfill their work and family obligations. With 300,000 children set to lose access to child care by 2010, Hillary's plan would increase child care funding through the Child Care and Development Block Grant and foster public-private partnerships to expand child care options at the state level.
This bold new effort will give families the support they need to more effectively balance work and family obligations. And it will work in partnership with America's businesses to ensure that pro-family work policies and increasing workplace flexibility helps improve American competitiveness and economic growth.
"Providing paid family leave and flexibility for the employees at Discovery created value for its shareholders and made the employees more loyal to the company. I believe work-life balance initiatives are as much about doing good as doing well, and these initiatives will help America's parents and help grow the bottom line," said Judith McHale, former president and CEO, Discovery Communications, Inc.
Families today are struggling to find quality time with their children while meeting their responsibilities to their jobs. More and more families are headed by two working parents, and today's parents work longer hours than ever before. As a result, American parents have twenty-two fewer hours a week to spend with their kids than they did in 1969. A 2002 report by the Families and Work Institute found that 45 percent of employees say that work and family responsibilities interfere with each other, and 67 percent of working parents say they do not have enough time with their children.
Hillary Clinton believes that as these new challenges confront America's families, our policies need to catch up. That's why today she announced a new work-family agenda for our modern economy. This bold new effort will give families the support they need to more effectively balance work and family obligations. And it will work in partnership with America's businesses to ensure that pro-family work policies and increasing workplace flexibility helps improve American competitiveness and economic growth. Hillary's work-family agenda includes:
Family leave provides paid time off for parents to care for their newborn or adopted children or to support caregivers who are caring for elderly relatives or immediate family members. Parental leave is common in most countries, but the United States is one of only a minority of countries that provides no legal guarantee of maternity leave to new mothers—joining Swaziland and Papua New Guinea. Today, only 18 to 19 percent of women with a high school degree or less have access to paid maternity leave. For professional women, access to family leave has steadily risen – from 14 percent in the 1960s to 63 percent in the 1990s. But far too many women are still without family leave, and at the most critical time for bonding between parents and their child, many parents are forced to go directly back to work. Only 7 percent of men have access to paid paternity leave. Three out of four workers who are eligible for FMLA don't take it because it is not paid.
Hillary Clinton's national family leave initiative will: (a) set a goal of having all states adopt family leave programs by 2016; (b) provide generous grants to states to develop family leave programs in their states; and (c) establish the federal government as a model workplace in providing family leave.
Employers have found that investing in work-family initiatives helps the bottom line through better retention and productivity. In a survey of 200 "Fortune 1000" companies that allowed flexible work arrangements through telecommuting, approximately 60% of employers reported that enabling greater flexibility for employees lead to reduced absenteeism and productivity increases of at least 20%. Approximately 65% of respondents reported improved retention, reduced costs for office space and reduced stress. Nearly 80% of respondents indicated that flexible arrangements improved employee morale.
Today's initiatives will encourage employers to take the steps to help their employees balance work and family. As President, Hillary will:
Hillary has worked on expanding access and improving the quality of child care in our country for decades. The Bush Administration has essentially frozen the level of child care funding for the last eight years. As a result, the real purchasing power of child care subsidies has fallen significantly. According to the Bush Administration's own estimates, 300,000 children will lose child care assistance by 2010, and 150,000 have already lost child care assistance since 2000.
Hillary believes we need to increase child care funding through the Child Care and Development Block Grant and return the program to it's original intent: to serve working families. She will also work with Congress to reform the Dependent Care Tax Credit to address its shortcomings. And she will improve the quality of child care by investing in:
 Hillary has long supported giving every parent a real choice about whether to stay home and care for their children full time or work outside the home. That is why she is proposing to allow qualifying, low-income parents who want to stay at home rather than place their children in child care to receive child care subsidies through the Child Care Development Block Grant. This program would award grants to states to support stay-at-home parents. Currently, only parents who place their children in child care are eligible to receive assistance to the Child Care Development Block Grant.
 Most people believe that current law already protects parents from being discriminated against because they are parents with caregiving responsibilities, but unfortunately too many mothers and fathers are not protected. A pregnant woman should not be fired because her employer does not allow any employee to take unpaid leave for a temporary disability. A father should not be fired because he has responsibilities toward his children. As President, Hillary will work to prohibit discrimination against parents.
 