 – Today, Senator John Edwards kicks off a two-day, nine-county "Barnstorm for Rural America" across Western Iowa to highlight the families and communities that are too often forgotten in Washington and to discuss his specific solutions to revitalize and restore hope to rural America. Former Congressman Ben "Cooter" Jones, who played Cooter Davenport on the successful television series The Dukes of Hazzard, is joining Edwards on the Barnstorm.
Edwards was born and raised in a small rural town and understands the values and struggles of rural America. He saw what happened when the mill where his father had worked was closed down and jobs were shipped overseas, and has made rural revitalization a cornerstone of his campaign.
"People in Washington think of rural America as a place you fly over when you're going from New York to California - but not me," said Edwards. "I will never forget rural America - it's part of who I am. I am running for president on behalf of my father and the people he worked with at the mill and the millions of hard-working families like the ones I grew up with. This Barnstorm is about bringing attention to the struggles of rural America, which are too often ignored by Washington. As president, I will restore hope and opportunity to small towns and rural communities."
Edwards begins Day One of the "Barnstorm for Rural America" in Dunlap, Iowa, where he will tour the Dunlap Auction House and discuss agricultural issues, including country-of-origin labeling. Edwards will then travel to Harlan to discuss how we can protect family farms. As president, Edwards will stand up to the big agricultural conglomerates and ensure fairness for family farmers by enacting a national packer ban, enforcing country-of-origin labeling, imposing a moratorium on Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations and targeting farm subsidies to family farmers instead of corporations by limiting payments to $250,000 per person.
Edwards will then travel to Exira, Iowa to hold a community meeting at Exira High School to discuss his plan to strengthen rural schools. Rural schools in Iowa enroll 38 percent of the state's children but receive only 28 percent of education funding. Edwards went to rural public schools and believes we need to do more to make sure young people in rural communities get the same great education he did. As president, he will strengthen rural schools by improving pay for teachers in rural schools to help attract quality new and experienced teachers, creating digital learning opportunities, increasing high school graduation and college enrollment rates and putting Washington on a path to fully funding its share of special education costs. In support of the "Speed Matters" campaign, a project of the Communications Workers of America, Edwards also discussed the importance of high speed Internet access at schools like Exira High School.
In Greenfield and Waukee, Iowa, Edwards will discuss his plans to bring good jobs and economic opportunities back to small towns. Rural manufacturing has been hit particularly hard by unfair trade practices that privilege multinational corporations over workers. Under President Bush, Iowa has lost more than 16,000 manufacturing jobs. Edwards will restore economic fairness to rural America by helping small businesses thrive and grow. He will create the Rural Economic Advancement Challenge (REACH) Fund, which will provide $1 billion over five years to jumpstart small businesses in rural areas. The REACH Fund will bring capital and management expertise to small town America and connect investors with entrepreneurs in small towns to provide training and support.
For more information on Edwards' plans to ensure fairness for family farmers, strengthen rural education, and revitalize the rural economy, please see the attached fact sheets. For more information on Edwards' full plan to restore hope to rural America, please visit 
While American family farmers are being forced out of business at an alarming rate, our nation's food supply is increasingly at risk from under-regulated imports. The concentration of corporate farms with destructive land use practices has been slowly killing smaller and medium-sized farms, only the pace is no longer so slow. The connection that Iowa's family farmers have to the communities in which they live, the soil they tend and the crops and livestock they raise benefits all Americans. Just as we need our family farms more than ever, two farmers leave their land every hour. [USDA, 2004]
John Edwards grew up in a small town in farm state. Family-owned farms were a part of the America in which he grew up. America's future - protecting a safe and abundant food supply and achieving energy independence - depends on the survival of our farming communities. To protect family farms and farming communities, Edwards has introduced policies that ensure Iowa family farmers can compete against big agribusiness, protect the food we eat and preserve the land in rural communities.
Big corporate farms use their economic power to squeeze struggling family farmers, just as they use their political power to pressure Washington for special treatment. To defend family farming, Edwards will:
Degrading and unsafe environmental practices threaten the well-being of our food supply and the rural communities that produce it. As president, Edwards will:
In America today, children who live in the right zip code get the best education our country can offer, but children in rural and low-income communities face an uphill battle. They see some of the highest dropout rates, lowest college enrollment rates, lowest average teacher salaries and often large school transportation and special education costs that make it next to impossible to invest more resources in raising student achievement. Rural schools in Iowa enroll 38 percent of the state's children but receive only 28 percent of education funding. [U.S. Department of Education, 2007; RSCT, 2005]
Born and raised in a small town, John Edwards knows the struggles of rural Iowa families and believes that America cannot turn its back on the rural communities that are the keepers of American values like family, work, community, and freedom. He believes that no matter where they live, every child should have the same chance to get a great education. As president, Edwards will:
Too often, politicians in Washington look out for big businesses in urban centers and ignore the challenges facing rural America. Many small towns in Iowa are struggling: rural workers in the state earn 23 percent less than urban workers. Rural manufacturing has been hit particularly hard by unfair trade practices that privilege multinational corporations over workers. Under George Bush, Iowa has lost more than 16,000 manufacturing jobs. [USDA, 2007; BLS, 2007]
Born and raised in a small town, John Edwards knows the struggles of rural families. America cannot turn its back on the rural areas that are the keepers of American values like family, work, community and freedom. Today, Edwards explained how his Rural Economic Advancement Challenge (REACH) Fund will create new jobs and businesses in rural Iowa and rural areas across America.