 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 (Governor Mitt Romney, Press Availability, Grand Rapids, MI, 10/13/07)
 (Editorial, "Size Matters," 
, 4/16/07)


 Across America, there are thousands of families with members in the Armed Forces, Reserves and National Guard who need more support from Washington.
 This will help provide the resources needed for equipment, modernization, training, treatment and care of our wounded soldiers.
 To defeat the global Jihadist threat, Governor Romney believes we need a truly global strategy that combines our efforts with others, brings more tools of our national power to bear and implements specific, tailored strategies for every nation at risk. As part of this strategy, Governor Romney will create the Special Partnership Force (SPF) built on a core of Special Forces experts trained to work with local governments around the world.


 While there is a threat of nuclear material from nations like Iran falling into the hands of terrorists, we must be vigilant in preventing terrorists and Jihadists from acquiring what are commonly known as "loose nukes." To guard against this nuclear peril, Governor Romney has proposed several new initiatives.
 Governor Romney's plan will tighten economic sanctions against the Iranian regime; isolate Iran diplomatically and indict Iran's President Ahmadinejad for inciting genocide; encourage Arab states to join our efforts; make clear to the Iranian people the peril of acquiring nuclear capabilities which means keeping the military option on the table; and integrate our strategy into a broader approach to support moderate Muslim communities and leaders.
 Governor Romney believes we must enforce our laws, secure our border, put in place an enforceable employment verification system, and provide no special pathway to citizenship for those here illegally.
 (Deborah Solomon And Sarah Lueck, "Democrats Outline Tax Approach," 
, 9/19/07)
 Governor Romney's plan will allow middle class Americans to save tax free by changing the tax rate on interest, capital gains and dividends to absolutely 0%. By helping more Americans save and invest, we can meet the challenges of an aging population and ensure the financial security of America.
 Governor Romney will make the Bush tax relief permanent, roll back tax rates for all Americans, eliminate the death tax once and for all, cut the corporate tax rate, oppose any increase in Social Security taxes and make qualified medical expenses tax deductible.
 Like the millions of families and businesses across the country, government must also live within a budget. Excessive spending is not an option for American families and should not be an option for Washington politicians.
 He will veto any non-defense discretionary appropriations bill that grows spending at a rate greater than inflation minus one percent (CPI-1%). This will save $300 billion over 10 years.
 He will undertake an exhaustive review of each federal program to eliminate wasteful programs.
 Giving the President this power would allow us to make tremendous strides in eliminating earmarks and cutting inefficient programs.
 In addition to lowering taxes on the American people and bringing fiscal responsibility to Washington, Governor Romney's economic blueprint includes initiatives to reform the tort system, become energy secure, strengthen our education system and promote trade around the world.
 Governor Romney's health care reform plan is a comprehensive solution to America's health care ills that expands access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance. Governor Romney's plan recognizes the importance of the role of the states in leading reform and the need for innovation in dealing with rising health care costs and the problem of the uninsured.
 (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "Marriage And The GOP," 
, 9/14/07)
 He opposes abortion and embryonic-destructive stem cell research, and will pursue a pro-life agenda. When presented with legislation on life issues in Massachusetts, Governor Romney sided with life.
 In Massachusetts, Governor Romney fought to defend traditional marriage as between one man and one woman.
 He testified before the Senate for the Amendment, and wrote to all 100 U.S. Senators asking them to vote for the Amendment.
 Every mother and father wants to protect their children. Governor Romney will work to ensure that every home computer has effective software to filter out unwanted pornography. He will enforce our nation's obscenity laws and punish retailers who sell excessively violent and sexually explicit video games to minors.
 To help protect our children, Governor Romney will propose new, tougher federal penalties for first-time offenders who use the Internet to sexually assault children.
 For example, MySpace.com recently identified and removed more than 29,000 sex offenders from its online site.
To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.