 This Act was passed with bipartisan support and signed into law by President Bush in August 2007.
 This failure to provide permanent modernization to FISA denies our intelligence professionals the certainty and permanence they need to protect Americans from terrorism and other threats to national security.
 It is a matter of basic fairness that companies alleged to have helped America following terrorist attacks of unprecedented scale should not face a flood of lawsuits.
 The additional resources that the bill authorizes to meet its audit and reporting requirements would not help alleviate the need for the limited number of trained linguists and analysts to spend time compiling the information rather than tracking current threats to the Nation.
 
The PAA permits the collection of foreign intelligence when the target is reasonably believed to be outside the United States. It also provides for court review of the procedures that are used to determine whether a target is outside the United States, without unnecessary and time-consuming individualized review of these targets.
The House bill imposes a court approval requirement that risks hindering the collection of 
 intelligence information from 
 intelligence targets outside the United States.
The PAA permits the collection of foreign intelligence to continue while any court appeals, including review by the U.S. Supreme Court, are pending.
The House bill contains no mechanism permitting the collection of foreign intelligence to continue while court appeals are pending.
 
The PAA does not limit the types of foreign intelligence information that can be collected from foreign targets; instead, it consistently applies the definition of foreign intelligence information contained in the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
The House bill would exclude collection of foreign intelligence information related to conduct of the foreign affairs of the United States from foreign intelligence targets located outside the United States.
The House bill could put the FISA Court in the position of making judgments about what falls within the restrictive definition of foreign intelligence information used by the bill.
 The Attorney General has submitted to the FISA Court the procedures used by intelligence professionals to determine that the acquisitions of foreign intelligence authorized under the Protect America Act are directed only at persons reasonably believed to be outside the United States.
 These reports must include:
 In the six months before vital provisions of the Protect America Act expire, the Justice Department will provide: