 – Iowans for Hillary today announced the names of 400 Health Care Professionals who support Hillary Clinton because of her commitment to providing quality, affordable health care for every American. Health care professionals across the Hawkeye state are actively uniting behind Hillary because they recognize her American Health Choices Plan will insure every American while putting the consumer—not health insurance companies—in control of health care decisions. Hillary's plan will cover 270,000 uninsured Iowans and save average families $2,200 a year.
In September, the campaign released the names of 16 Health Care Professionals who make up Iowa's Health Care Leadership Council and 240 additional health care professionals who support Senator Clinton. Today the campaign announced an additional 144. These health care professionals will work within their networks to increase support for Hillary in the caucuses.
"Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices plan really proves she understands the needs of working Americans because her plan ensures that paying for health care will never again be a crushing financial burden and provides Americans with a menu of plans to choose from," said administrator emeritus of the Des Moines Area Community College Nursing Program Virginia Wangerin. "Not only is her plan the best, but she is the only candidate with the strength and experience to turn the plan into reality."
"As a nurse, I meet a lot of families who have been made to feel invisible by the Bush Administration and are forced to make difficult decisions and sacrifices when it comes to paying for health care," said Advanced Registered Nurse Practitioner and Rural Health Advocate Cheryll Jones. "Hillary knows this is a grave problem and cares deeply about uninsured families in Iowa. She has fought her whole career to expand and improve health care in America and has the strength and experience to get results as President."
"I am honored to have the support of these dedicated health care professionals," Clinton said. "My plan covers all Americans and improves health care by lowering costs and improving quality. It's a plan that works for Iowa's families and Iowa's businesses, while preserving consumer choices."
Hillary's plan covers every American - finally addressing the needs of the 47 million uninsured and the tens of millions of workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. For those with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans; including keeping the coverage they have, while lowering cost and improving quality.
Hillary Clinton has been fighting for children and families for 35 years. In Arkansas, she helped bring health care to thousands of rural families. As First Lady, she fought for health care reform, and has the scars to show for it. But Hillary never gave up. She fought for and helped pass the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) which provides health insurance to more than 6 million kids a year nationwide. And as Senator, she fought to expand SCHIP and get 9/11 first responders, veterans and military families the health care they need and deserve.