 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 "It's inexcusable that Michigan is undergoing a one-state recession, that the rest of the country is growing and seeing low levels of unemployment, but Michigan is seeing ongoing high levels of unemployment, almost twice the national rate. Industry is shrinking here, jobs are going away. This is just unacceptable, and therefore, everyone's going to have to come together to solve the problem. And that means from the president's standpoint, the president's going to have to stand up and say: You know what? – to the auto industry – the door's always open. We're going to work with you and make sure that you have a listening hear and someone who will participate with labor and with management." (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 "Number two, we're going to make sure that we invest in technology and research – a lot of that relating to energy, fuels; automotive research like material science to help boost Michigan once again." (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 "We're going to have to fix the schools; as Newt Gingrich pointed out, 22 percent of Detroit kids don't – or excuse me – 22 percent graduate from high school. That's unacceptable." (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 "We're also going to have to do a better job keeping our taxes down. Jennifer Granholm has made a big mistake by raising taxes. I was, frankly, a little nervous to – by being here tonight. I figured that she was going to put a tax on the debate before we got finished." (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 "And we're going to have to go work, as well, to make sure that there's a level playing field around the world as we compete, to make sure that American goods are pushing into other markets; that goods coming overseas aren't getting an advantage as they do now with embedded taxes." (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)


 Governor Romney believes making the Bush Tax Cuts permanent is the first step to ensuring that Michiganders are able to keep more of their hard-earned money.
- 


 As President, Governor Romney will cut marginal tax rates across the board, allowing all Michiganders to save more money. This approach is fair, simple and extends the pro-growth benefits of tax rate cuts to all Americans.


 Governor Romney's plan will allow middle class Michiganders to save tax free by changing the tax rate on interest, capital gains and dividends to absolutely 0%. By helping more people in Michigan save and invest, we can meet the challenges of an aging population and ensure the financial security of America.
- 
 Any taxpayer with Adjusted Gross Income of under $200,000 would pay a tax rate of absolutely 0% on all of the income they earn from their savings, capital gains and dividends.
 It is unfair to tax Michiganders three times: once when they earn their money; second when they invest it and receive income from those investments; and third when they die.


 The United States has the second highest corporate tax rate in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. We simply cannot afford for future economic growth to have a tax rate that is out of alignment with the other major economies of the world.


 We can strengthen Social Security without resorting to higher Social Security taxes that will impact all Michiganders. Governor Romney will oppose any proposed increase in Social Security taxes.


 Governor Romney supports the full deductibility of qualified medical expenses, which will allow people in Michigan to deduct the cost of their health insurance and out-of-pocket medical expenses, where accompanied by at least catastrophic insurance.

To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.