 - Sen. Biden issued the following statement in response to Governor Bill Richardson's position on the Iraq war and his comments on the historic, bipartisan support for the Biden-Brownback-Boxer resolution:
"Governor Richardson's remarks today on my Iraq plan were surprising. First, he was in favor of my plan, now he's attacking it. First, he said he would take all of our troops out in six months, and now he acknowledges it would take a year. First, he said he would leave residual forces in Iraq, and now he says he wouldn't. First, he was in favor of diplomacy followed by withdrawal, now he says it's the other way around. When it comes to the single most important issue facing our country - how to end the war in Iraq responsibly - it is important to be clear and consistent. It is especially important on this issue that there be no gap between what we say as candidates and what we would do as president.
"My plan for Iraq has overwhelming bipartisan support. More and more people acknowledge that while leaving Iraq is necessary, it is not enough. We also have to do everything we can not to leave chaos behind. The only way to do that is through the political solution that I put forward, which has been embraced by the Senate, the Iraqis and the foreign policy community. I suggest that Governor Richardson go back and review his record and statements and reconsider today's remarks."

-- Bill Richardson on Iraq [Richardson Email to supporters, 8/30/07]
 
 In a campaign press release, Richardson said, "Senator Biden's plan to leave troops in Iraq means his plan has very little chance to succeed. The parties will not even sit down in a meaningful way until we get all the forces out. Senator Biden keeps drawing an analogy to Bosnia, but he has that one backwards: the peacekeepers could only enforce the peace after the deal was made. Using U.S. peacekeepers in Iraq would turn the guarantors into targets, thus plunging any settlement back into war." [Richardson for President Press Release, 
]
 In his most recent television commercial, Bill Richardson says Richardson has "the only plan that pulls every single soldier out of Iraq." [Richardson Campaign Advertisement, "
"]
 
 During an event in Ottumwa, Iowa Bill Richardson said, "Can we get these troops out within a year? The answer is yes. We moved 200,000 troops within three months at the beginning of this war," he said. "I would put some troops, some, a very small number, in Kuwait. Nearby, with some contingencies. And in Afghanistan, where I do believe they are needed. We've done enough. It's time for Iraq to take over, for them to take responsibility." [Ottumwa Courier, 10/11/07]
 During the Dartmouth presidential Bill Richardson said, "[Y]ou cannot start the reconciliation of Iraq, a political settlement, an all-Muslim peacekeeping force to deal with security and boundaries and possibly this issue of a separation, which is a plan that I do believe makes sense, until we get all our troops out, because they have become targets." [Democratic Debate, MSNBC, 9/26/07]
 At the YearlyKos presidential forum, Richardson said, "I have a one-point plan to deal with Iraq. Get out. Get out. Get out." [YearlyKos Presidential Forum, 8/5/07]
 During a May 27th appearance on Meet the Press, Richardson was asked, "You would have voted against a[n Iraq funding] bill that did not have a fixed withdrawal date." Richardson replied, "Yes." [NBC, Meet The Press, 5/27/07]