 These agreements will level the playing field for workers, farmers, and businesses here in America. The President's remarks focus on how the three free trade agreements with Latin American countries will help lift their people out of poverty, and will strengthen the forces of freedom and democracy in the Western hemisphere.
 Last year, Peru's economy expanded by eight percent. Trade between the United States and Peru has more than doubled over the past three years.
 Elimination of these tariffs would also provide new market access and fair treatment to U.S. companies that provide services and invest in Peru.
 Last year, Peru held two rounds of free and fair elections, and through their representatives, the Peruvian people have made clear that they want to increase their ties to the United States. Congress should show America's commitment in return by voting on and approving the Peru free trade agreement.
 Colombia's economy is strong and growing with a 6.8 percent expansion last year, and they are the largest market for U.S. agriculture exports in South America.
 About 8,000 U.S. companies that export to Colombia would find new buyers, and would be able to compete in Colombia on a level playing field for the first time in history.
 Both houses of the Colombian legislature have expressed overwhelming support for the trade agreement with the United States. Now they are waiting to see if we will hold up our end of the deal.
 Panama has one of the fastest-growing economies in Central America, with a growth rate of more than eight percent last year.
 It would be especially beneficial for American farmers and ranchers, and create opportunities for American businesses to participate in the Panama Canal expansion project. It will also provide new market access for U.S. service suppliers, including in Panama's key financial services sector.
 Korea is the 11th largest economy in the world, with an annual GDP of nearly $1 trillion. The KORUS FTA will open a growing market of 49 million consumers to the full range of U.S. goods and services, from autos to telecommunications services. The U.S. International Trade Commission estimates the reduction of Korean tariffs on goods alone would likely add roughly $10-12 billion to annual U.S. GDP.
 The free trade agreement will also address a range of non-tariff barriers, and increase transparency in Korea's regulatory processes. The agreement will strengthen Korea's economic reforms that have helped it become a prosperous economy and vibrant democracy and sustain the growth of trade and investment opportunities for the mutual benefit of both countries.
 The U.S.-Korean alliance was forged in war more than a half century ago. The KORUS FTA will energize that alliance with shared prosperity.