Today, Hillary Clinton announced a bold new Universal 401(k) retirement savings plan which will help hundreds of thousands of middle class Nevada families save and build wealth for their future. Along with her commitment to protecting Social Security, Hillary's plan will tackle the current retirement savings crisis by helping ensure that all Americans can afford a dignified retirement.
Clinton campaign volunteers gathered today to dial for change from the Las Vegas headquarters, sharing Senator Clinton's American Retirement Accounts Plan with Nevadans across the state. Over 40 volunteers reached out to many of the hardworking Silver State residents who would benefit from Clinton's retirement plan. The plan will help ensure the road to the middle class – and the American Dream – is within reach for all Americans for generations to come.
The retirement savings plan is a cornerstone of Senator Clinton's plan to strengthen America's middle class. It is a plan that will create new, quality jobs essential to broad-based prosperity; restore fairness to our economy; renew the basic bargain that if you work hard, you can get ahead; and put our fiscal house in order again.
"My plan will help tens of millions of middle class families go from just getting by to getting ahead – putting them on a path to a secure retirement," Clinton said. "I believe it's time for a new bargain with the American people – a bargain that reflects the changing global economy and the new realities of aging. I believe that if you work hard and contribute to our country, you should have the opportunity to save and invest. And through the discipline of good planning and the miracle of compound interest, you should be able to build wealth for yourself, a better future for your family, and a secure retirement."
The following details how Senator Clinton's American Retirement Accounts Plan will benefit thousands of hardworking Nevadans.
Today, Tuesday October 9th, Hillary Clinton announced a bold new American Retirement Accounts Plan with generous matching tax cuts that—alongside her efforts to strengthen defined benefit pension plans—will help hundreds of thousands of middle class Nevada families build wealth for their future. Building on her commitment to protect the guaranteed benefit of Social Security, Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will tackle the current retirement savings crisis by helping ensure that all Americans can afford a dignified retirement.
The American Retirement Accounts Plan will give all Americans an opportunity to save and build wealth for retirement that is as 
. Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will give that chance to the tens of millions of Americans who are currently falling through the cracks while reducing wealth inequality, increasing national savings, and encouraging economic growth. Under the plan, working and middle class families who currently have the hardest time saving will receive generous matching tax cuts as an incentive to help them save. And all middle-class Americans will get to open new American Retirement Accounts that will be designed to provide no-hassle, portable savings throughout their careers.
Nearly half of Nevada workers are employed by firms that do not offer a pension or retirement plan, and many workers in firms that do offer plans, are not taking advantage of the chance to save. The level of retirement savings is particularly low for workers in small businesses and farms, parents and others who take time out from the work force, and lower-income families.
In addition to providing generous new incentives for working families to save, Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will reduce disincentives to save that exist in our retirement system. Unfortunately, current policy actually penalizes lower-income families who want to save for retirement in 401(k)s and IRAs, by disqualifying them for means-tested benefit programs like food stamps, SSI, and Medicaid. The asset tests in these programs are not indexed for inflation and have not been raised in over a decade. The food stamp asset limit for most households is $2,000; the SSI limits are $2,000 for singles and $3,000 for couples.
[1] U.S. Census Bureau (2004).


[2] Small Business Administration (2006).


[3] Retirement Security Project (2006).


 _4.pdf