"I came into office, there [were] 1.1 million people on welfare. When I left office, there were 640,000 fewer people on welfare. We had changed it completely. We didn't change the numbers alone, we changed the culture. In fact, we changed the culture so much we changed the name of the welfare office. One day I went down to the welfare office. I took off the sign that said 'Welfare Office,' and I put up a sign that said 'Job Center,' because we had changed the culture. When you walked into a welfare office, the people there learned that the new culture was to find a job for you, not just put you on welfare. And it transformed the city."
– Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks On Commitment To Fiscal Discipline, Des Moines, IA, 6/20/07
 "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
 "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
 GIULIANI: "[W]e dealt both with the state and the federal government at first to try to accomplish welfare reform. They haven't really accomplished it yet. So what we decided to do is do it ourselves." ( CNN's "Evans and Novak," 7/6/96)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet;)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 