 – Today, Senator John Edwards highlighted his six-point plan for America to take leadership in ending the genocide in Darfur and offered words of encouragement to the Darfur Action Group of South Carolina and other similar organizations taking action today to end the genocide.
"I commend the Darfur Action Group of South Carolina for their work to bring awareness to Darfur," said Edwards. "I have faith that through their efforts, and the efforts of other groups from around the globe, we will be able to stop the genocide in Darfur."
Edwards' plan calls for leading an effort in NATO to support and accelerate the deployment of U.N. peacekeeping forces and to create a no-fly zone over the area, using U.S. military assets to support these efforts. Edwards also called for working with NATO countries to increase multilateral sanctions on the Sudanese government and for the federal and state governments, as well as American companies and individuals, to divest financial holdings from companies or countries that do business with the Sudanese government.
"There comes a time when we must say, 'Never again,'" Edwards continued. "Sudan is the most critical humanitarian crisis in the world. We must take steps to put Darfur back on the road to peace and help restore America's moral leadership in the world."
Conflict in Darfur, which is in Western Sudan, broke out in 2003 when small farmers took up arms to fight for a greater share of resources. The conflict turned into genocide when the Sudanese government backed the Janjaweed militia, which has brutally raped, tortured and killed 400,000 people and driven two and a half million people from their homes. In addition, the violence and chaos is spreading to neighboring Chad and the Central African Republic. African Union peacekeeping troops stationed in Darfur have been valiant in a difficult cause. But these troops, which number just 7,000, have been unable to protect civilians or enforce a 2004 ceasefire. In the meantime, security has deteriorated dramatically.
Edwards' Plan for Action in Darfur is included below.
"There comes a time when we must say, 'Never again.'" -- John Edwards
Sudan is the most critical humanitarian crisis in the world. Senator John Edwards has proposed a comprehensive plan for action that the United States can take with its NATO allies to help end the genocide in Darfur. With these steps, we can put Darfur back on the road to peace and help restore America's moral leadership in the world.
Conflict in Darfur, which is in Western Sudan, broke out in 2003 when small farmers took up arms to fight for a greater share of resources. The conflict turned into genocide when the Sudanese government backed the Janjaweed militia, which has brutally raped, tortured and killed 400,000 people and driven two and a half million people from their homes. In addition, the violence and chaos is spreading to neighboring Chad and the Central African Republic. African Union peacekeeping troops stationed in Darfur have been valiant in a difficult cause. But these troops, which number just 7,000, have been unable to protect civilians or enforce a 2004 ceasefire. In the meantime, security has deteriorated dramatically.
Edwards believes we should work with NATO, one of the world's most effective security organizations, to make sure the U.N. process will be as rapid, tough and effective as possible. We saw the success of NATO in the Kosovo operation under President Clinton. Edwards believes a combination of U.S. and NATO actions will accelerate the peacekeeping process and stop the genocide. Edwards has called for the following steps: