"[L]ast month our economy added 110,000 new jobs. And that's good news for people here in our country. It's an indicator that this economy is a vibrant and strong economy. ... If you want this economy to continue to grow, and if you want to reinforce the fact that … entrepreneurship is strong and people are working, don't raise taxes. And I'm looking forward to working with the Congress to set priorities on how we spend the people's money, but I also am going to make it very clear to people in Congress that we're not going to raise their taxes on the working people."
 September 2007 is the 49th consecutive month of job growth, setting a new record for the longest uninterrupted expansion of the U.S. labor market. Significant upward revisions to employment in July and August mean employment growth has averaged 97,000 per month over the last three months. Since August 2003, our economy has created more than 8.1 million jobs, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.7 percent.
 
 
 They want to pay for these spending increases by raising taxes on the American people. At a time when many families are dealing with rising mortgage rates, college costs, and health care expenses, it is wrong to take more money out of their paychecks.
 This week, President Bush vetoed Congress' SCHIP bill, which would move millions of children who now have private health insurance onto government coverage. The President supports SCHIP, and he hopes Members of Congress will now work with him to find common ground on a bill that returns the program to its original purpose of targeting dollars to poor children who need coverage the most.
 For example, last month, the Administration launched a new Federal Housing Administration (FHA) initiative called "
,"
which will bring the total number of families FHA projects to help refinance next year to approximately 240,000. President Bush calls on Congress to help an estimated additional 200,000 families avoid problems with their mortgages by passing FHA modernization legislation.