 – Iowans for Hillary today unveiled the Iowa Hispanic Leadership Council for Hillary, a group of 27 Hispanic leaders from every corner of the state who support Hillary Clinton. These leaders in the Hispanic community have united behind Hillary because she is the most qualified and experienced candidate to end the war in Iraq, give every American health insurance, and make college more affordable. Across the Hawkeye State, the Hispanic Leadership Council will work to increase Hispanic participation in the caucuses for Hillary.
"In a country as rich as ours, it is unacceptable that people in my community are a pink slip away from being uninsured," said Juanita Moreno of Glenwood. "Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices plan will ensure each and every American has quality, affordable health care, and she is the only candidate with the experience to make it a reality."
"Over the past six and a half years, I have witnessed our middle class economy decline and a disastrous war in Iraq," said Miguel Moreno of Glenwood. "Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to change our course from her first day in the White House and fight for families like mine."
"I am thrilled to have the support of these leaders from Iowa's Hispanic community," said Senator Clinton. "Too many Hispanic families have been made to feel invisible to the Bush Administration and when I am president, no American will be invisible."
Senator Clinton has a long record of fighting for the issues that matter to Latino families. As a young woman, she traveled across south Texas registering Latino voters. As First Lady and Senator, she has fought for investments in job training and child care, an increase in college access for Hispanics, to provide capital and technical assistance to minority-owned businesses, and to end the war in Iraq. On Wednesday, she released 
 a report that documents the impact that her proposals will have on the Latino community. 
 to read the details of Hillary Clinton's Hispanic Agenda: Una Vida Mejor Para Todos