 (Editorial, "Rudy Gets It All Wrong," 
, 10/19/97)
 "Mayor Giuliani called the ruling a 'very, very big victory for New York City and for New York State' that would keep in place the federal Medicaid reimbursement formula for hospitals serving poor patients without insurance. 'Why the Clinton administration, that began on a note of wanting to give universal health care, ended up vetoing this particular area of legislation as a political matter, I will never understand,' Giuliani said." (Richard Sisk and Frank Lombardi, "City Gains 1.2B From Line-Item Veto Ax," [New York] 
, 6/26/98)
 GIULIANI: "The line item veto was unconstitutional. I took Bill Clinton to the Supreme Court and beat Bill Clinton. It's unconstitutional. What the heck can you do about that, if you're a strict constructionist?" (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 SEN. BYRD: "This is a great day; a great day for the United States of America, a great day for the Constitution of the United States. And I am happy and gratified at the decision that has been reached..." (Sen. Robert Byrd, Press Conference, 6/25/98)
 SEN. BYRD: "Now, as you fine people know, I fight to give to this country infrastructure, believing in it; that it helps the economy, and it's good for the national defense; it puts people to work and so on. There have been situations in which I have had items in appropriation bills. ... But [the line-item veto] would be a powerful and very persuasive instrument to use on me or any other senator. It's a convincing tool, because I know what the people of West Virginia need. I've fought for their needs for 40 years. And I know that that line item veto could be useful to any president." (Sen. Robert Byrd, Press Conference, 6/25/98)
 "The Supreme Court has now ruled the line item veto unconstitutional. The pro-spending lobby in Washington is uncorking bottles of champagne. ... In fact, last December, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, long the prince of pork on Capitol Hill, declared that if the court strikes down the line item veto, it would be 'my Christmas wish come true.' Merry Christmas, Mr. Byrd." (Stephen Moore, "Regrouping To Revive Line-Item," 
, 6/30/98)