 – Speaker Newt Gingrich (Speaker Newt Gingrich, 
, 2/6/95, p. H1262)
 GIULIANI: "The line item veto was unconstitutional. I took Bill Clinton to the Supreme Court and beat Bill Clinton. It's unconstitutional. What the heck can you do about that, if you're a strict constructionist?" (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 (CNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Dearborn, MI, 10/9/07)
 SPEAKER NEWT GINGRICH: "Again and again on a bipartisan basis, President after President has said it is something that would be good for America, because it would allow the President to cut out some of the worst of the spending, to set some fiscal discipline, and to indicate where the President stood. Yet it is being done in such a way that when it is totally inappropriate, the Congress can override it and the Congress can insist on spending if there is a distinct disagreement." (Speaker Newt Gingrich, 
, 2/6/95, p. H1262)
 (Speaker Newt Gingrich, 
, 2/6/95, p. H1262)
 SPEAKER NEWT GINGRICH: "This is President Ronald Reagan's 84th birthday. ... I particularly commend the majority leader, the gentleman from Texas [Mr. Armey], for his thoughtfulness in arranging for this debate and insisting that we do it on this date. ... On behalf of the former President, on behalf of the many millions of Americans who want this to pass, I urge all of my colleagues to vote yes and help us pass the line-item veto." (Speaker Newt Gingrich, 
, 2/6/95, p. H1262)


 "'For years, the other party was unwilling to give this authority to any president, Republican or Democrat, but today we passed it,' said House Majority Leader Dick Armey, Texas Republican. 'We promised the American people change, and we're giving them change.'" (Patrice Hill, "Line-Item Veto Sent To Clinton," 
, 3/29/96)
 (Rep. John Ensign, 
, 2/6/95, p. H1217)
 "President Clinton is free to become the first president to use a line-item veto pen on congressional spending bills. The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday threw out a challenge by six members of Congress, but left the door open to future objections once a presidential veto actually axes individual spending items or special-interest tax breaks from a bill. ... Republican Rep. John R. Kasich of Westerville called the ruling a 'victory for people who go to work every day' and a defeat for the 'politicians who want to use influence to get special deals.'" (Jonathan Riskind, "Clinton Is Cleared To Use Line-Item Veto," 
, 7/27/097)
 "In a written statement issued by his office, Mr. Dole called the legislation 'a long overdue weapon in the fight for fiscal sanity.'" (Alison Mitchell, "With Ceremony, Clinton Signs Line-Item Veto Measure," 
, 4/10/96)
 (Alison Mitchell, "With Ceremony, Clinton Signs Line-Item Veto Measure," 
, 4/10/96)
 (Jim Abrams, "Congress Passes Line-Item Veto," 
, 3/28/96)
 '"In effect, we're taking action against our interest,' said Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott, R-Miss. 'We are showing that we can rise above politics.'" ("Line-Item Veto Bill Approved In Senate," 
, 3/28/96)
 SEN. LOTT: "Yeah. I've always been for a line item veto, going back to when I first started paying attention to it in the late '70s. I was for it when Gerald Ford was President. I was for it when Jimmy Carter was President. I was for it when Ronald Reagan and George Bush were President. And I'm for it, even though Bill Clinton is President." (Sen. Trent Lott, Remarks National Broiler Council, Washington, DC, 10/5/95)
 (Sen. Bill Frist, 
, 3/24/95, p.S4300)
 (Sen. John Kyl, 
, 3/24/95, p.S4300)
 STEPHEN MOORE: "Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to address the Subcommittee on the Constitution on an issue of vital importance to our nation's fiscal future: the line item for the president. I share the opinion of three-quarters of the American public that the line item veto is an essential fiscal tool for weeding out excessive and wasteful spending from the federal budget." (Subcommittee On The Constitution, U.S. Senate Hearing, 1/17/95)
 GOV. THOMPSON: "I urge you in the strongest possible terms to bring accountability back to our nation's budget process. Put the interests of the citizen's as whole ahead of the special interests; put taxpayer's concerns in front of the lobbyist's wish lists. Pass the line item veto." (Subcommittee On The Constitution, U.S. Senate Hearing, 1/24/95)
 GOV. WELD: "I'm delighted to have this opportunity to offer my thoughts on the line-item veto, which I not only favor, but consider an essential device for any governor or president who hopes to preside over a balanced budget. I consider the Balanced Budget Amendment to be, both in its practical effect and in its spirit, the cornerstone of the Contract with America." (Committee On Government Affairs, U.S. House Of Representatives Hearing, 1/12/95)
 (Committee On Government Affairs, U.S. House Of Representatives Hearing, 1/12/95)
 REP. PELOSI: "Mr. Chairman, I propose this amendment as one who rises in opposition to the line -item veto legislation. I oppose the legislation strenuously because I think that it does damage to the balance of power and separations of power set forth by our forefathers in the Constitution." (Rep. Nancy Pelosi, 
, 2/2/95, p. H1107)
 SEN. REID: "The effort to have a line -item veto is not something that was first devised by President Reagan, who was the first to bring it up in recent memory. No, that is not the case. The fact is, the line -item veto comes up about every 20 years and has since this country was formed. Why has it not passed up to this point? It has not passed because it is a bad idea. It is a bad idea, especially bad for States that are sparsely populated." (Sen. Harry Reid, 
, 3/20/95, p. S4158)
 SEN. BYRD: "I'm against the line-item veto because it would shift the power over the purse to the executive, thereby changing the structure that was created by the framers. And the whole structure is separation of powers and checks and balances. That's why I'm against the line-item veto." (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/11/95)
 "Sens. Robert C. Byrd and Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., voted against the line-item veto... 'The Senate is on the verge of making a colossal mistake,' Byrd said before the vote, 'a mistake we will come to regret.'" (Editorial, "Line Item," 
 (WV) 
, 3/29/96)
 (Elizabeth Schwinn, "Congress Hands Off Some Power," 
, 3/29/96)
 LEAHY: "Presidents have the power to veto if they feel there's too much spending in there. But they shouldn't have the power to go to such tiny minutiae that they end up being able to blackmail individual members of Congress." (CNN's "News," 3/9/95)
 (CNN's "News," 3/9/95)
 (Tim Poor, "Gephardt Urges Business 'Code' To Boost U.S. Living Standard," 
, 2/2/95)