(CHARLESTON) – Small business owners and members of the Charleston County Council Teddie Pryor and Colleen Condon unveiled a report by the Hillary campaign detailing the impact of Hillary's new retirement savings plan on South Carolinians today in Charleston, detailing widespread impact in the Palmetto State.
"As a small business owner, I'd like to offer my employees a retirement plan, but it just isn't financially feasible," Pryor said at the unveiling held at his Charleston business, Pryor's Towing and Radiator. "For 990,000 South Carolinians that don't have access to a retirement savings plan through their jobs, Hillary's plan will help them save, invest and build for retirement with their own 401(k) and financial incentives to put money back for their senior years."
According to the State Impact Report, 46 percent of South Carolina workers are employed by firms that do not offer a pension or retirement plan. Many workers in firms that do offer plans are not taking advantage of the chance to save. The level of retirement savings is particularly low for workers in small businesses and farms, parents and others who take time out from the work force, and lower-income families. Hillary's plan will offer expanded tax credits to help many of South Carolina's 339,000 small businesses offset start-up administrative costs of providing the direct deposit options to their employees.
"Hillary's plan helps offset the economic squeeze on our families and small businesses in the Charleston area and in our state. I want to offer retirement options like a 401(k), but I haven't found a good solution having just two employees," Condon, owner and principal of Condon Law Firm, a small family law firm with two employees, said. "Hillary's plan helps families employed by small businesses and low-income families alike save for retirement and at the same time gives an incentive to South Carolinians who already have a retirement plan to aggressively save."
According to the State Impact Report, 2.17 million South Carolina workers who currently have access to an employer-sponsored retirement savings account could benefit from the tax incentives in Senator Clinton's plan.
Hillary's bold new Universal 401(k) plan, announced today, includes generous matching tax cuts that—alongside her efforts to strengthen defined benefit pension plans—will help hundreds of thousands of middle class South Carolina families build wealth for their future. Building on her commitment to protect the guaranteed benefit of Social Security, Hillary's Universal 401(k) plan will tackle the current retirement savings crisis by helping ensure that all Americans can afford a dignified retirement.
Hillary's proposal will provide a matching tax credit – dollar-for-dollar – of the first $1,000 of savings done by every married couple making up to $60,000. The plan will provide a 50% match on the first $1,000 of savings for every family making between $60,000 and $100,000, which will be phased out after that. This matching tax credit will be available to all Americans in existing 401(k) type accounts as well as the new American Retirement Accounts. These accounts will allow individuals to contribute up to $5,000 per year on a tax-deferred basis. The first $1000 contributed into the accounts would be eligible for the new 1-to-1 and 50% government matches.
A copy of the state impact report is below.
On Tuesday October 9th, Hillary Clinton announced a bold new American Retirement Accounts Plan with generous matching tax cuts that—alongside her efforts to strengthen defined benefit pension plans—will help hundreds of thousands of middle class South Carolina families build wealth for their future. Building on her commitment to protect the guaranteed benefit of Social Security, Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will tackle the current retirement savings crisis by helping ensure that all Americans can afford a dignified retirement. 
The American Retirement Accounts Plan will give all Americans an opportunity to save and build wealth for retirement that is as 
. Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will give that chance to the tens of millions of Americans who are currently falling through the cracks while reducing wealth inequality, increasing national savings, and encouraging economic growth. Under the plan, working and middle class families who currently have the hardest time saving will receive generous matching tax cuts as an incentive to help them save. And all middle-class Americans will get to open new American Retirement Accounts that will be designed to provide no-hassle, portable savings throughout their careers.
Individuals would have the choice to set up their account with any private provider that offered diversified investment options that included an age appropriate investment life-cycle fund as a default option. Individuals would also have a fall-back option of setting up accounts through a similar system to the ones that Members of Congress currently get to use.
Forty-six percent of South Carolina workers are employed by firms that do not offer a pension or retirement plan, and many workers in firms that do offer plans, are not taking advantage of the chance to save. The level of retirement savings is particularly low for workers in small businesses and farms, parents and others who take time out from the work force, and lower-income families.
In addition to providing generous new incentives for working families to save, Hillary's American Retirement Accounts Plan will reduce disincentives to save that exist in our retirement system. Unfortunately, current policy actually penalizes lower-income families who want to save for retirement in 401(k)s and IRAs, by disqualifying them for means-tested benefit programs like food stamps, SSI, and Medicaid. The asset tests in these programs are not indexed for inflation and have not been raised in over a decade. The food stamp asset limit for most households is $2,000; the SSI limits are $2,000 for singles and $3,000 for couples.
[1]U.S. Census Bureau (2004).
[2]Small Business Administration (2006).
[3]Retirement Security Project (2006).