Today, Hillary Clinton announced a bold new American Retirement Accounts plan with generous matching tax cuts that—alongside her efforts to strengthen defined benefit pension plans—will help tens of millions of middle class families build wealth for their future. Building on her commitment to protect the guaranteed benefit of Social Security, Hillary's American Retirement Accounts plan will tackle the current retirement savings crisis by helping ensure that all Americans can afford a dignified retirement.
Under the plan, working and middle class families who currently have the hardest time saving will get generous matching tax cuts as an incentive to save. And all Americans will get to open new American Retirement Accounts that will be designed to provide no-hassle, portable savings throughout their careers. In essence, the plan will provide universal access to a generous 401(k) for all Americans.
"I believe it's time for a new bargain with the American people – a bargain that reflects the changing global economy and the new realities of aging. I believe that if you work hard and contribute to our country, you should have the opportunity to save and invest. And through the discipline of good planning and the miracle of compound interest, you should be able to build wealth for yourself, a better future for your family, and a secure retirement," Clinton said.
"That's why today I'm announcing my plan to provide every single American with an easy, automatic opportunity to save for the future through a new account I'm calling an American Retirement Account. These accounts will take the best of 401(k) plans – and make it available to every working family in America.
"They will help those who are currently falling through the cracks of our system, while reducing wealth inequality, increasing national savings, and encouraging economic growth. And they will ensure all Americans can save and build wealth for their retirement. This is a major commitment to ensuring a secure retirement for all Americans.
"My plan will help tens of millions of middle class families go from just getting by to getting ahead – putting them on a path to a secure retirement."
 When it comes to defined contribution plans, we know what works to help families save for retirement. We know that when people have access to retirement accounts that provide generous matching incentives and that make saving easy and secure—with automatic enrollment, direct deposit options from workers paychecks and secure diversified investment options—they are more likely to build solid nest-eggs for their future. 
 Hillary believes that we need to take head-on this national retirement savings crisis by giving all Americans an opportunity to save and build wealth for retirement that is as 
. Her American Retirement Accounts Plan will give that chance to the tens of millions of Americans who are currently falling through the cracks while reducing wealth inequality, increasing national savings, and encouraging economic growth. Under the plan, working and middle class families who currently have the hardest time saving will get generous matching tax cuts as an incentive to save. And all middle class Americans will get to open new American Retirement Accounts that will be designed to provide no-hassle, portable savings throughout their careers. 
.