 
 Like the millions of families and businesses across the country, government must also live within a budget. Excessive spending is not an option for American families and should not be an option for Washington politicians.
 He will veto any non-defense discretionary appropriations bill that grows spending at a rate greater than inflation minus one percent (CPI-1%). This will save $300 billion over 10 years.
 He will undertake an exhaustive review of each federal program to eliminate wasteful programs.
 Governor Romney has proposed making income from interest, dividends and capital gains tax-free for middle-class families.
 Any taxpayer with Adjusted Gross Income of under $200,000 would pay a tax rate of absolutely 0% on all of the income they earn from their savings, capital gains and dividends.
 Tax-free savings will encourage more families to build wealth by saving, investing and participating in the stock market, which will help grow the economy.
 Governor Romney will make the Bush tax relief permanent, cut tax rates for all Americans, abolish the death tax, and make the corporate tax rate more competitive with the rest of the world.
 Across America, there are thousands of families with members in the Armed Forces, Reserves and National Guard who need more support from Washington.
 This will help provide the resources needed for equipment, modernization, training, treatment and care of our wounded soldiers.
 As part of his Global Initiative for Values and Freedom, he will create the Special Partnership Force built on a core of Special Forces experts trained to work with local governments around the world.
 Governor Romney believes we must enforce our laws, secure our border, put in place an enforceable employment verification system, and provide no special pathway to citizenship for those here illegally. Governor Romney will cut back federal funding to cities that are "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants and refuse to comply with federal law or aid federal law enforcement.
 He testified before the Senate in favor of the Amendment, and wrote to all 100 U.S. Senators asking them to vote for the Amendment.
 Governor Romney will work to ensure that every home computer has effective software to filter out unwanted pornography. He will enforce our nation's obscenity laws and punish retailers who sell excessively violent and sexually explicit video games to minors.
 To help protect our children, Governor Romney will propose new, tougher federal penalties for first-time offenders who use the Internet to sexually assault children.
 We should expect more from our leaders in Washington and those convicted of breaking the law should be stripped of their government pensions.
 If elected President, one of his first acts will be to issue an Executive Order prohibiting the immediate family of his Cabinet and Senior Staff from lobbying the Executive Branch. The standard for high ethical conduct has to be set at the top.
To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.