HANOVER, NH-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today laid out an essential part of his proposal to refocus the Pentagon's budget and modernize the military in line with his foreign policy philosophy of New Realism. This proposal better prepares the American military to face the new challenges of the 21st century and returns the country to sound fiscal policy.
Richardson plans to outline his policy initiative in full and address the future of Iraq and the U.S. military in a major speech on October 4 at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.
"Too much of our military remains focused on stopping tank columns from marching across Europe rather than dealing with lethal non-state actors and loosely affiliated terror cells," Governor Richardson said. "My plan calls for a return to fiscal discipline that both cuts outdated Cold War weapons systems and wasteful programs and renews the focus on the real threats posed to our nation."
Richardson has compiled a list of more than a dozen specific programs that can be cut, reduced, or delayed. These sensible spending adjustments will strengthen our national security by refocusing our resources and strategic capabilities on the real threats that America faces in the 21st century. Governor Richardson's plan will give the United States $57.14 billion per year to reinvest in urgent domestic priorities.
These savings, many of which were recommended by Dr. Lawrence Korb, a defense analyst, retired Navy Captain, and Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower, Installations, and Logistics to President Ronald Reagan, include:
These cuts and shifts in spending are coupled with plans to bolster the personnel end-strength of the Army and Marine Corps, America's intelligence community, and our special operations forces-- necessary steps to address the true threats of the 21st century.
 Dr. Lawrence Korb. "The Korb Report: A Realistic Defense for America." Published by Business Leaders for Sensible Priorities, p. 6-7.
 
., p. 10-11.
 
., p. 5.
 
., p. 5.
 
., p. 11-12.
 
., p. 7-8.
 
., p. 12;

"Budget Options, February 2007: Consolidate Military Personnel Costs in a Single Appropriation: 050-11 -- Discretionary." From the Congressional Budget Office: 
,, p. 21.
 Korb, p. 9-10.
 
., p. 8.
 
., p. 9.
 
., p. 9.
 
., p. 12.
 "Budget Options, February 2007: Terminate the Airborne Laser Program: 050-7 -- Discretionary." From the Congressional Budget Office: 
,, p. 15.
 "Budget Options, February 2007: Cancel the Maritime Prepositioning Force: 050-4 -- Discretionary." From the Congressional Budget Office; 
, p. 12.