 Support for Senator Hillary Clinton continues to grow among New Hampshire medical professionals following last week's announcement of her American Health Choices Plan. Today, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign announced that 121 nurses have endorsed Hillary for President and will serve as members of the New Hampshire Nurses for Hillary Leadership Committee.
"During her time in the Senate, Hillary Clinton has been a leader in addressing the nursing shortage and has worked to secure increased funding for nursing education," said Margaret Franckhauser, RN, MS, MPH, of Meredith. "She understands the unique and vital role that nurses play in caring for so many people across the county. Hillary has shown that she believes an investment in nursing is truly an investment in the future of our health care system."
"Hillary's health care policy is the most comprehensive and her experience will help her pass healthcare reform when she is President," added State Representative and RN, Trinka Russell of Stratham.
Senator Clinton has a proven record of working for America's nurses. She introduced the Nursing Education and Quality of Health Care Act, which aims to increase the nurse workforce in rural areas, expand nursing school faculty, and develop initiatives to integrate patient safety practices into nursing education. Hillary also authored a provision, which became law as part of the Nurse Reinvestment Act, to encourage the recruitment and retention of nurses and directs money to grants for nursing education and recruitment.
In addition, Hillary's American Health Choices Plan contains provisions for ending the nursing shortage by providing short-term funding to schools of nursing to expand their capacity to train nursing students, as well as to recruit and retain faculty to teach the next generation of nurse professionals. Under the plan, schools that collaborate with innovative worker training programs that recruit, train, and place nurses, and that provide career pathways across the spectrum of care settings would receive priority funding.
To learn more about Hillary's American Health Choices Plan, visit the campaign website at 
 .