SANTA FE, NM-- The Richardson for President campaign today announced endorsements from a number of high-profile political, community, union, and tribal leaders from around the United States.
"I am proud to have the endorsements of these influential leaders," Democratic Presidential candidate Richardson said. "These are people from all walks of life living across the United States, and I am excited that they have united behind my campaign. Together, we are going to win the White House and end the war in Iraq."
Today's endorsers hail from thirteen states, representing every region of the United States. They include state senators, assemblymen, and representatives, tribal chairs, union presidents, and other influential community leaders.
New Mexico Governor Richardson, backed by a solid third quarter fundraising total, is the only Democratic candidate to have shown a steady increase in support in recent months. In polling in the early states of Iowa and New Hampshire, Richardson consistently has registered double-digit support. A new Strategic Vision poll in Iowa puts Governor Richardson at thirteen percent, within striking distance of the leading candidates with over three months remaining before the votes are cast.
"Governor Bill Richardson has been a strong voice for change in this Presidential campaign, and he has a long record of experience to back it up," California State Senator Alex Padilla said. "It is an honor to join his campaign. When he becomes President, I am confident that Bill Richardson will get all of our troops out of Iraq and extend access to quality, affordable health care to every American."

Felipe Fuentes, State Assemblyman

Jose Huizar, Los Angeles City Councilman

Alex Padilla, State Senator

Alice Borodkin, State Representative

Debbie Marquez, Democratic National Committee member

Dr. Richard Martinez, Former Pueblo County Commissioner

Buffie McFadyen, State Representative

Val Vigil, Former State Representative          

Tommy Coleman, former Mayor of Albany and former Executive Director of the Democratic Party of Georgia

David Haley, State Senator

Jim McClinton, Former Mayor of Topeka

Louis Ruiz, State Representative

John Connors, President- Labor Council for Latino American Advancement

Boyd Marley, State Representative

Bobby Zirkin, State Representative

Matthew Albanese, Bridgewater Selectman

Irene Auginaush, White Earth Tribal Councilwoman

Kevin Leecy, Bois Forte Tribal Chairman

Alvin Moyle, Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribal Chair

Juan Ramos, Philadelphia City Councilman

Dave Cooley, Former Deputy Governor

Zoyle Jones, President- Tennessee State Employees Association

Tommy Kilby, State Senator

Bill Mason, Former Senior Staffer to Vice President Al Gore

Anna Belle Clement O'Brien, former State Representative, former State Senator, and sister of former Governor Frank Clement

Kevin Sharp, Civil Rights Lawyer

Jim Condon, State Representative

Don Barlow, State Representative

Rosalinda Guillen, Hispanic/Latino Caucus Chair

Floyd Esquibel, State Representative

Ivan Posey, Eastern Shoshone Tribal Chair