 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest website, 
. As the premier location for information about Ann and her family, visitors to 
 will get an insider's perspective into Ann's time on the campaign trail, the Romney family and Ann's causes. The website is a unique forum for people to connect directly with Ann.
"Campaigning with Mitt has been such an incredible experience. One of the best parts about being on the campaign trail is the opportunity to meet so many great Americans that we might not have otherwise met. Here at 
, I hope people from across the country will get to know a little bit more about me, my causes and the importance of family in my life. Our campaign is doing so many creative things online, and I'm proud that this site will be a part of that," said Ann Romney.
Central to 
 is "Ann's Causes," a section detailing Ann's struggle with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and her work to promote awareness about the disease. As Ann writes on the website, she is "continually amazed by the number of people who approach me to offer support and relay their struggles and successes with MS." Through 
, she will continue to build awareness about the disease, support networks and treatments. On the website, Ann writes:
 
 
Visitors to 
 can also see video, news coverage and photos from Ann's time on the campaign trail. In the coming weeks and months, the website will be continually updated.
 
 "I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) in the fall of 1998. Since then, I have devoted a great deal of time to raising awareness about the disease and am devoted to making a difference in the lives of people who suffer from MS."
 
 A companion of MittTV, this web video channel will allow visitors to watch video clips of Ann's speaking engagements and interviews.
 
 A section with the most recent news stories about Ann Romney and her family on the campaign trail.
 
 "I'm sure many of you have heard Mitt talk about the importance of what happens within the four walls of the American home. And for our family, like so many others, the kitchen lies at the heart of our home. ... I want to use this area of the website to collect favorite family recipes from across America."