 
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)


 GOV. ROMNEY: "The people of this great nation have always taken a hand in shaping our own destiny. I believe the American people will rise to the occasion once again, as we have always done before. But at this critical time in our nation's history, Washington is failing us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
 '"I know some people think you have to choose between change and experience,' the senator from New York said at an afternoon rally on the grounds of the state capitol in Concord. 'Well, with me, you don't have to choose. I have spent my whole life fighting for change.'" (Dan Balz, "Clinton Bills Herself As Agent Of Change, Voice Of Experience," 
, 9/3/07)
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
 GOV. ROMNEY: "We will also strengthen our economy with lower taxes and energy security." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07
 GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change are also fiscally responsible. We refuse to charge our children and grandchildren for our excessive spending — If I am elected President, I will cap non-military discretionary spending at inflation less one percent. If I get appropriations above that amount, I will veto them. And I like vetoes. I've vetoed hundreds of items already. Let's put some fresh ink in the Presidential veto pen!" (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
 "The plan offers tens of millions of Americans a new tax credit to make premiums affordable-which more than offsets the increased revenues from the Plan's provisions to limit the employer tax exclusion for health care and discontinue portions of the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
 "The other option that Senator Clinton has not ruled out is to raise taxes to pay for a Social Security bailout plan. This would eventually require raising the payroll tax to 18% or 20% from today's 15% to pay benefits to tomorrow's retirees. To taxpayers, that option isn't 'affordable or sustainable.' It would be a serious job killer." (Stephen Moore, "Hillary's Entitlement Bailout Tax?" 
, 9/7/07)
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)


. GOV. ROMNEY: "The right answer is less government, less regulation, more individual responsibility, and more of the market dynamics that propel the rest of our economy." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
- 
 GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change believe in small government. Governments should be restrained so that the freedoms and vitality of individuals and enterprises can be unleashed. Compared to free markets and free enterprises, government is slow to act, wasteful, duplicative, bureaucratic, inefficient, ineffective, and unresponsive." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
 "Strengthen Medicaid and CHIP: The Plan will fix the holes in the safety net to ensure that the most vulnerable populations receive affordable, quality care." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
- 
 (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
 SEN. CLINTON: "Well, there is certainly a shared responsibility that goes with having a healthcare system that both can afford to provide quality affordable healthcare for everyone and puts responsibility on everyone in our country." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 9/23/07)
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
. GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change believe in strength. We know that the best foe against tyrants and the best ally peace has ever known is a strong America. We will strengthen the military with more troops, better armament, and better care for our veterans." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
 GOV. ROMNEY: "A father's concern about U.S. support for the military surge in Iraq has prompted Republican Mitt Romney to both make a $25,000 donation to a variety of military support agencies and urge Americans to engage in a similar display of patriotism. The money will be divided between USO Care Packages, the Fisher House, A Soldiers Wish List, Packages from Home, Operation Thank You, Operation Shoebox and America Supports You. Links to each site have been placed on Romney's presidential campaign Web site, 
." (Glen Johnson, "Romney Donates $25,000 Amid Plea For Patriotic 'Surge'," 
, 8/2/07)
 SEN. CLINTON: "I will not vote for any funding that does not move us toward beginning to withdraw our troops, it's really the only way that I can register my very strong disapproval of this policy, and I will continue to do so." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 9/23/07)
 (H.R. 2206, CQ Vote #181: Passed 80-14: R 42-3; D 37-10; I 1-1, 5/24/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
 CLINTON: "You know, with respect to the question, though, about the Democrats taking control of the Congress, I think the Democrats have pushed extremely hard to change this president's course in Iraq." (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
 (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
 "Cornyn, R-Texas, amendment no. 2934 to the Levin, D-Mich., substitute amendment no. 2011. The Cornyn amendment would express the sense of the Senate to reaffirm support for Gen. David H. Petraeus, the U.S. commander in Iraq; strongly condemn personal attacks on the honor and integrity of Petraeus and members of the U.S. armed forces; and repudiate an advertisement by MoveOn.org about Petraeus." (HR 1585, CQ Vote #344, Adopted 72-25: R 49-0; D 22-24; I 1-1, 9/20/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
 CLINTON: "[I] think that the reports that you provide to us really require the willing suspension of disbelief." (Committee On The Armed Services, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 9/11/07)
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)