Millions of Hispanics will benefit from the American Health Choices Plan released this week by Hillary Clinton. Out of any racial or ethnic group, Latinos have the highest rate of uninsured; the American Health Choices Plan will help millions of Latinos to have access to high quality, affordable health coverage. The plan will provide the 17.9 million Latinos with employer-sponsored coverage with more security and allow them to pay less and receive higher quality coverage. The plan will also fix the holes in the safety net for the 9.6 million Latinos participating in Medicaid, to ensure that they receive affordable, quality care.
In addition, the American Health Choices Plan will eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in health care, and increase diversity and cultural and linguistic competency in the health care system.
"I believe it is long past time that this nation had an answer to the health crisis that we face," said Hillary Clinton. "I believe America is ready for a change that will allow Latinos and indeed, all Americans to live longer, healthier lives."
The American Health Choices Plan creates a premium affordability tax credit that will ensure that no family has to choose between paying their mortgage and paying for health care. Insurance companies will no longer be allowed to deny coverage for a pre-existing or genetic condition. Under the Clinton plan, people who change jobs will not lose their healthcare coverage.
Specifically, the plan will:
The following report is one in a series that the campaign will release to demonstrate how Clinton's American Health Choices Plan will impact various communities.
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the American Health Choices Plan to provide affordable, high quality health insurance to the millions who are uninsured. There are 15.3 million uninsured Latinos in the U.S., and Latinos are the least likely to have insurance of any racial or ethnic group. As a result of the American Health Choices Plan, Latinos will be more likely to lead longer, healthier lives.
Senator Clinton's plan to ensure universal health coverage is vital to closing the disturbing racial and ethnic health disparities that are pervasive throughout our health care system. While many factors, such as the environment, contribute to the disparities in health outcomes, 
 Disparities in health outcomes mirror disparities in health insurance coverage: about one third of all Hispanics and nearly one quarter of Hispanic children are without health insurance; on both counts, these are higher figures than those for any other racial or ethnic group. Approximately one-half of foreign-born Hispanics are uninsured. Hispanics are also least likely to have employer-sponsored coverage of any racial or ethnic group-only 40 percent of Hispanics have health insurance through their employers compared with 69 percent of non-Hispanic whites. Furthermore, as the Latino population has grown in the United States, the health coverage situation has deteriorated. Between 1994 and 2004, the number of Hispanics without a regular source of healthcare grew from 29 to 31 percent even though it shrank among every other ethnic and racial group.
As a result of limited access to health care: