Today, the California Hillary for President Campaign released a state report that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan would benefit Californians in the Golden State.
"Families across California are suffering under a burdensome health care system that makes it nearly impossible to afford health insurance," said Senator Clinton. "I want to change that and make quality health care affordable. My plan, the Americans Health Choices Plan, will make insurance accessible to the 6.6 million Californians that currently don't have insurance and it will put an end to insurance discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions."
Under Senator Clinton's plan, the 6.6 million Californians who have no health insurance - including 1.18 million children - will finally receive quality, affordable health care. California, the most populous state in the U.S., with the highest number of uninsured citizens, has seen a 10.4% increase in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office [Census, 2007].
"Health care reform is priority one in California. Senator Clinton's leadership on this issue is one of the reasons she is so strong in this state. As we continue to promote accessible, affordable health care in California, we will continue to look to Senator Clinton's responsible approach at the national level," said California Assembly speaker Fabian Nunez.
California residents will benefit from lower costs and improved quality under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, California residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 69 percent since 2000 [HHS, 2006]. And according to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save up to $165 billion per year-or $2200 for a typical family.
"Senator Clinton's Health Choices Plan gives Californians - individuals and groups - many choices, and would resolve the problems of the many conflicting proposals before the legislature," said Assemblyman Mervyn Dymally (D-Compton), Chair, California State Assembly Committee on Health.
Under her plan, all Americans will have choices. They can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions. For more information about Hillary Clinton's health care plan, please visit 
 care .
"As a local health commissioner in a county implementing universal coverage, I believe Hillary's plan has addressed all of the issues raised during the health care reform debate over the last 15 years. It's universal, it's affordable and it's reliable. That's what the American people want and need," said Catherine Dodd, RN, PhD of San Francisco.
"Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan will address many of the priority concerns about health care in California and across the country. With her plan, every man, woman and child will be assured quality and affordable care, and nurses are ready to help make that a reality." -- Mary Foley, RN and Past-President of the American Nurses Association
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable health care to all Americans - including the 6.6 million uninsured California residents and the tens of thousands of California workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [1][1] For California residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans - including keeping the one they have - while lowering cost and improving quality.
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:
All California residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, California residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 69% since 2000. [6][6] Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our health care infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for California families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year-or $2200 for a typical family.
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated again by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. Health plans will compete on cost and quality rather than avoiding patients who need insurance the most-ending discrimination and putting money in families wallets.
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising health care costs are affecting the ability of California businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.