 - Today, Sen. Joe Biden unveiled his plan to help families save and prepare for a secure retirement. After seven years of stagnant wage growth under the Bush administration, American families are finding it harder than ever to save and prepare for retirement.
In the 1980's, 83 percent of private sector workers were covered by pension plans - these hard-working Americans could count on predictable payments for the rest of their lives. Today, just 20 percent of private-sector employees have a pension and these pensions are not as secure. When a corporation reorganizes under Chapter 11, too often executives take care of themselves first, while they turn their backs on obligations to workers.
To keep our promise to seniors, Sen. Biden is proposing to crack down on executives who get bonuses while companies walk away from employee pensions, require employers that don't provide retirement plans to allow employees to make direct deductions into Individual Retirement Accounts and make it easier to take retirement plans with you by automatically rolling over 401 (k) plans. To begin the process of saving earlier in one's life, as President, Sen. Biden would invest $500 in a Kid's Account for every American child born after December 31, 2008. He is also reaffirming his commitment to protect Social Security, not privatize it.
"America needs to keep its promise to seniors and those planning for the future by making it easier to save and strengthening important programs like Social Security," said Sen. Biden. "Financial security - independence and a decent standard of living − is rapidly becoming a thing few feel confident they will have when they retire. The American promise that no one who works hard their whole life should end up with nothing is in jeopardy. We need to make it clear to all Americans that they can trust that their lifetime of hard work will be rewarded and protected."
###
Preparing for retirement has never been more complicated. Fewer families can count on secure retirement income from defined benefit pension plans. Only 20 percent of private sector workers have pension plans - compared with 83 percent in the 1980s. Those that do have pensions worry about whether they will still be there when they retire. At the same time most families are hard pressed to find money to put aside in savings. Half of our workforce has no employer retirement plan. Families are tapped out after years of flat wage growth and rising costs of living. The personal saving rate is less than 1 percent. This not only threatens financial security of millions of families - it also jeopardizes our entire economy by increasing our need to borrow from foreign countries like China and Japan. Two-thirds of families headed by a worker between the ages of 55 and 64 have under $88,000 in personal retirement savings - scarcely enough to purchase an annuity paying $653 a month. More than half of American workers believe they will have to push back retirement. Security - independence and a decent standard of living − is rapidly becoming a thing few feel confident they will have when they retire. The American promise that no one who works hard their whole life should end up with nothing is in jeopardy.
Joe Biden will keep the promise of a secure retirement by: