DES MOINES, IA – Today, the Iowans for Hillary campaign released a report that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan would affect Iowa.
"As I travel the Hawkeye state I meet numerous families who are struggling to deal with the rising costs of health care," said Senator Hillary Clinton. "This is a moral crisis in Iowa and in America and that is why I have been the leading advocate for universal care for over a decade. My plan recognizes that we all have different needs and offers a menu of choices so that every American can choose which plan best fits their family."
For more information about Hillary Clinton's health care plan, please visit 
.
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable health care to all Americans – including the 270,000 uninsured Iowa residents and the tens of thousands of Iowa workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [U.S. Census, 2007]. For Iowa residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans – including keeping the one they have – while lowering cost and improving quality.
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:
All Iowa residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, Iowa residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs—family premiums are up 44% since 2000. [HHS]. Senator Clinton's plan will provide needed relief by bringing down premiums for working families. Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our health care infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for Iowa families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, 
.
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated against by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. 
.
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising health care costs are affecting the ability of Iowa businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.
Iowa faces an acute shortage of registered nurses, where nurses rank last in salaries among the states and earn 24% less than the national average. [Iowa Policy Project, 9/2/2007; BLS, State Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates, 5/2006] That shortage appears to be growing—Iowa was short 2,300 nurses in 2005 and is predicted to be short more than 9,100 in 2020. [Iowa Department of Health, Status of the Nurse Workforce in Iowa February 2006] Extreme nurse and nurse faculty shortages can endanger patient care. Senator Clinton's plan to emphasize quality in the health care workforce will address this shortage by increasing funding for nurse residencies, providing short-term funding to nursing schools to boost enrollment and establishing innovative training and mentoring programs to improve retention over the long-term.