MANCHESTER, NH - Today, the NH for Hillary campaign released a report that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan would affect New Hampshire residents.
"Families across New Hampshire - and the rest of the country - are suffering under the burdens of a health care system where they cannot afford insurance," said Senator Clinton. "Even if they can afford it, insurance companies routinely withhold payment for necessary treatments and health care. My plan puts consumers in the driver's seat."
Under Senator Clinton's plan, the 150,000 New Hampshire residents who have no health insurance-including 19,000 children-will finally receive quality, affordable healthcare. New Hampshire has seen a 51 percent increase in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office. [Census, 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan will help reverse this trend by providing new refundable tax credits to help cover the cost of high-quality health coverage for all New Hampshire residents. Those credits will guarantee that securing quality health care never becomes a crushing burden for New Hampshire families, by guaranteeing that premiums never rise above a certain percentage of family income.
Jackie and Chuck Rossier of Merrimack have struggled with personal health issues for many years while battling insurance companies and hospitals over coverage and quality care. They have resorted to paying medical expenses with a credit card, exceeding $9,000 in 2005. They are supporting Hillary Clinton. "We strongly believe that she will be able to deliver affordable healthcare to everyone," said Chuck.
All New Hampshire residents will benefit from lower costs and improved quality under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, New Hampshire residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 53 percent since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year-or $2,200 for a typical family.
"Hillary has shown that healthcare is a very important issue to her, and her focus is genuine," said Dr. Stuart Glassman of Bedford, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Community and Family Medicine at Dartmouth College Medical School. "I work with veterans and persons with disabilities, and she has a good understanding of the needs of people who are at a disadvantage."
Under this plan, all Americans can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions. For more information about Hillary Clinton's healthcare plan, please visit 
.
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable healthcare to all Americans - including the 150,000 uninsured New Hampshire residents and the tens of thousands of New Hampshire workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [US Census, 2007] For New Hampshire residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans - including keeping the one they have - while lowering cost and improving quality.
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:

  
All New Hampshire residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, New Hampshire residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 53% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our healthcare infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for New Hampshire families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year-or $2,200 for a typical family.
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated against by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. Health plans will compete on cost and quality rather than avoiding patients who need insurance the most-ending discrimination and putting money in families' wallets.
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising health care costs are affecting the ability of New Hampshire businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.