COLUMBIA - The South Carolina Health Care Professionals for Hillary Committee released a report today that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan will impact the Palmetto State at an unveiling of the report at Providence Hospital in Columbia.
"Families across South Carolina are suffering because they can't afford health insurance under the current system," said Senator Clinton. "Even if they can afford it, insurance companies routinely withhold payment for necessary treatments and health care. My plan puts consumers in the driver's seat."
Under Senator Clinton's plan, the 672,000 Palmetto State residents who have no health insurance-including 99,000 children-will finally receive quality, affordable health care. South Caorlina has seen a 42 percent increase in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office. [Census, 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan will help reverse this trend by providing new refundable tax credits to help cover the cost of high-quality health coverage for all South Carolina residents. Those credits will guarantee that securing quality health care never becomes a crushing burden for South Carolina families, by ensuring that premiums never rise above a certain percentage of family income.
"There is a health disparity in our state, a significant one. And although there are a lot of things that contribute to the disparity, lack of coverage is the major issue. Hillary addresses the disparity by ensuring coverage for 250,000 minority, uninsured South Carolina residents," said Sheryl Mack of Charleston, program coordinator for the Hypertension and Stroke Belt Elimination Initiative.
Lack of coverage is not the only problem with health care in South Carolina. The state faces specific health disparities. Infant mortality in South Carolina is nearly two-and-a-half times higher for African Americans as it is for whites (14.5 percent vs. 6 percent) [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006]. African Americans make up only 29 percent of South Carolina's population, but 72 percent of the total people living with AIDS and 51 percent of people with cancer [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006].
All South Carolina residents will benefit from lower costs and improved quality under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, South Carolina residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year-or $2,200 for a typical family.
Under this plan, all Americans can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions. For more information about Hillary Clinton's health care plan, please visit 
 care.
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable health care to all Americans - including the 672,000 uninsured South Carolina residents and the tens of thousands of South Carolina workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [U.S. Census, 2007]. For South Carolina residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans - including keeping the one they have - while lowering cost and improving quality.
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:
All South Carolina residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, South Carolina residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs-family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our health care infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for South Carolina families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year-or $2200 for a typical family.
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security for South Carolinians by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated against by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. Health plans will compete on cost and quality rather than avoiding patients who need insurance the most-ending discrimination and putting money in families' wallets.
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising health care costs are affecting the ability of South Carolina businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.
Senator Clinton's plan to ensure universal health coverage is a vital is vital to closing the disturbing racial and ethnic health disparities that are pervasive throughout our health care system. On virtually every measure of health and well-being, African Americans in South Carolina fare worse than whites. For example:
While many factors contribute to the disparities in health outcomes, no factor matters more than access to health insurance. [Families USA]. By providing quality affordable health care to the more than 250,000 minority uninsured residents in South Carolina, the American Health Choices plan will help close these health disparities.
Despite the efforts of state policy makers, South Carolina continues to suffer from a shortage of registered nurses. Extreme nurse and nurse faculty shortages can endanger patient care. In South Carolina, the state Department of Health and Environmental Control (SCDHEC) established the goal for a nurse to visit 90% of Medicaid families with newborn babies. Yet due to nursing shortages, the number of visits actually decreased slightly last year. [SCDHEC, 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan to emphasize quality in the health care workforce will resolve shortages of nurses by increasing funding for nurse residencies, providing short-term funding to nursing schools to boost enrollment and establishing innovative training and mentoring programs to improve retention over the long-term.