At a news conference today, Nevadans for Hillary released a report that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan would affect Nevada.
"Families across Nevada - and the rest of the country - are suffering under the burdens of a health care system where they cannot afford insurance," said Senator Clinton. "Even if they can afford it, insurance companies routinely withhold payment for necessary treatments and health care. My plan puts consumers in the driver's seat."
Under Senator Clinton's plan, the 496,000 Nevada residents who have no health insurance - including 101,000 children - will finally receive quality, affordable health care. Nevada has seen a 51 percent increase in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office. [Census 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan will help reverse this trend by providing new refundable tax credits to help cover the cost of high-quality health coverage for all Nevada residents. Those credits will guarantee that securing quality health care never becomes a crushing burden for Nevada families, by guaranteeing that premiums never rise above a certain percentage of family income.
All Nevada residents will benefit from lower costs and improved quality under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, Nevada residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs - family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year - or $2200 for a typical family.
Under this plan, all Americans can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions. For more information about Hillary Clinton's health care plan, please visit 
.
On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable healthcare to all Americans - including the 496,000 uninsured Nevada residents and the tens of thousands of Nevada workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [U.S. Census, 2007]. For Nevada residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans - including keeping the one they have - while lowering cost and improving quality.
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:
All Nevada residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, Nevada families have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs - family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our healthcare infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for Nevada families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, 
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated against by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. 
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising healthcare costs are affecting the ability of Nevada businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.
[1][1] Coverage statistics for children under 18 are a 3-year average based on U.S. Census Bureau data 2004-06