 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest radio ad, "Traditional." The ad highlights Governor Romney's record of defending traditional marriage in Massachusetts and now, in Iowa. Governor Romney is the only major candidate who supports defending traditional marriage by passing the Federal Marriage Amendment.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation today in Iowa. Script and audio links are below.
 "In 2004, a judge in Massachusetts tipped the balance – paving the way to same-sex marriage for the first time in history.
"But the Governor of Massachusetts stood up, defending conservative values in our most liberal state.
"Governor Mitt Romney – he stood up for traditional marriage and fought the activist ruling every step."
 "The courtroom should be a place where laws are interpreted, not made."
 "Now, Mitt Romney is standing up for traditional marriage in Iowa, opposing the Polk County decision to permit same-sex marriage."
 "The court ruling in Iowa is just another example of an activist judge trying to find things in the Constitution that aren't there. As Republicans, we must oppose discrimination and defend traditional marriage: one man, one woman."
 "That's why Mitt Romney is supporting a Federal Marriage Amendment to the Constitution."
 "Not all Republican candidates for president agree, but defending marriage is the right thing to do."
 "Mitt Romney."
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
 "Paid for by Romney For President. MittRomney.com."
 


 "In 2004, a judge in Massachusetts tipped the balance – paving the way to same-sex marriage for the first time in history. But the Governor of Massachusetts stood up, defending conservative values in our most liberal state. Governor Mitt Romney – he stood up for traditional marriage and fought the activist ruling every step." 
 "The courtroom should be a place where laws are interpreted, not made."
 "I disagree with the Supreme Judicial Court. Marriage is an institution between a man and a woman. I will support an amendment to the Massachusetts Constitution to make that expressly clear." (Office Of The Governor, "Statement By Governor Mitt Romney On SJC Decision On Same Sex Marriage," Press Release, 11/18/03)
 "Backers of a constitutional ban on gay marriage in Massachusetts have shattered a 20-year-old record for the most certified signatures ever gathered in support of a proposed ballot question. ... The petition drew the signatures of Governor Mitt Romney and his wife, Ann; former House speaker Thomas M. Finneran, now the president of the Massachusetts Biotechnology Council; and former Boston mayor Raymond L. Flynn." (Raphael Lewis, "Petition Vs. Gay Marriage Advances," 
, 12/22/05)
 "Governor Mitt Romney and a group of Massachusetts residents asked the state's highest court yesterday to override the Legislature and let voters decide whether to ban same-sex marriage, accusing legislative leaders of violating the state constitution by refusing to act on the proposal." (Jonathan Saltzman, "Marriage Vote Suit Delivered To SJC," 
, 11/25/06)
 "That lawsuit, perhaps more than any other single action, was by all accounts instrumental in bringing pressure on the legislators to vote." (Rita Covelle, Richard Guerriero, Mary Ann Glendon, Kristian Mineau, Dr. Roberto Miranda, James Morgan, Joseph Reilly and Thomas A. Shields, "An Open Letter Regarding Governor Mitt Romney," 
, 1/11/07)
 "From the onset of the infamous Goodridge court decision in 2003, Governor Romney has opposed same-sex marriage and, I believe, correctly sought to overturn it through a constitutional amendment." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "An Early Massachusetts Primary," 
, 1/10/07)
 "Whatever the outcome, there's no denying that Romney has pulled every lever within his reach to defend traditional marriage." (John J. Miller, "Matinee Mitt," 
, 6/20/05)
 "Now, Mitt Romney is standing up for traditional marriage in Iowa, opposing the Polk County decision to permit same-sex marriage." 
 "The court ruling in Iowa is just another example of an activist judge trying to find things in the Constitution that aren't there. As Republicans, we must oppose discrimination and defend traditional marriage: one man, one woman."
 "The ruling in Iowa today is another example of an activist court and unelected judges trying to redefine marriage and disregard the will of the people as expressed through Iowa's Defense of Marriage Act. This once again highlights the need for a Federal Marriage Amendment to protect the traditional definition of marriage as between one man and one woman." (Romney for President, "Governor Mitt Romney On Iowa's Defense Of Marriage Act," Press Release, 8/30/07)
 "On Friday, Romney discussed the matter in a private conference call with Iowa House Republican Leader Christopher Rants, who has endorsed Romney, and Kris Mineau, president of the Massachusetts Family Institute, which worked on gay marriage issues in Massachusetts." (Amy Lorentzen, "Iowa Gay Marriage Ruling Stirs 2008 Race," 
, 9/1/07)
 "That's why Mitt Romney is supporting a Federal Marriage Amendment to the Constitution." 
 "Not all Republican candidates for president agree, but defending marriage is the right thing to do." 
 "Mitt Romney." 
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message." 
 "Paid for by Romney For President. MittRomney.com."
 MSNBC's JOE SCARBOROUGH: "Any other major Republican candidates support the marriage amendment?" GOVERNOR ROMNEY: "You know, I don't think that Rudy or Fred or John McCain support the marriage amendment and I think they're in error on that one." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 
, 9/14/07)
 "Society can ill afford erosion of charitable institutions. For these reasons, I join with those who support a federal constitutional amendment. Some may retreat from the concept of amendment. While they say they agree with the traditional definition of marriage, they hesitate to amend. But amendment is a vital and necessary aspect of our constitutional democracy, not an aberration." (Governor Mitt Romney, U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, Testimony, 6/22/04)
 "Next week, you will vote on a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution protecting the institution of marriage. As Governor of the state most directly affected by this amendment, I hope my perspectives will encourage you to vote 'yes.'" (Governor Mitt Romney, Letter To U.S. Senators, 6/2/06)
 