The newly-formed South Carolina Health Care Professionals for Hillary Committee announced its campaign for the American Health Choices Plan, Clinton's plan for ensuring affordable, quality health care for all Americans.
"Hillary's plan is what we need," Dr. Lilly Filler, OB/GYN, of Columbia, a member of South Carolina Health Care Professionals for Hillary said. "There is a crisis in our country when so many South Carolinians don't have any health coverage, countless people don't have adequate coverage and still more are facing their own crisis of how to pay for the coverage they have. Hillary's plan leaves patients and consumers in the driver's seat and makes sure every person in America has coverage."
Committee members said they will be working this week, and over the next few months, to get the word out about Hillary's plan to provide coverage for every American – finally addressing the needs of the 47 million uninsured and the tens of millions of workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage – with no overall increase in health spending or taxes. For those with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans – including keeping the one they have – while lowering cost and improving quality.
"Hillary's plan shares the responsibility of reform among government, business and individuals without negatively impacting the budget. It's a smart plan and we aim to get the word out among the health care industry and South Carolina voters that this is the right plan for our state and for the country. We'll be making the case tomorrow for why this plan is right for South Carolina specifically," Sheryl Mack, program coordinator for the Hypertension and Stroke Belt Elimination Initiative, of Charleston said.
Tomorrow, representatives from the committee and two of Hillary's state co-chairs will meet at Providence Hospital to unveil a new impact report detailing the benefits of Hillary's American Choices Health Plan in South Carolina. Still others among the committee pointed out that Hillary's experience in the field of health care reform makes her the best choice among the candidates to see meaningful reform enacted. "Hillary is the best choice to make real a plan that covers all Americans. She's fought this battle before and that makes her better prepared to make it real now," Dr. Bernetha George, a retired M.D. of Florence and committee member for both Health Care Professionals and Seniors for Hillary, said. "If you like the coverage you have you can keep it. It'll just be cheaper in the long run. People want choice, and that's a major part of what Hillary is proposing."
The nine members of the committee announced today include: LaKeisha McNeil, LPN, of Ridgeview; Nancy J. Anderson, retired Waccamaw Public Health District social work Director, of Conway; Gail Steifield, executive director of Church's Assisting People, of Myrtle Beach; Judy C. Goff, administrative assistant for the South Carolina Department of Health and Environment Control Region 6, of Conway; Cynthia McNeil, in-home caregiver for Griswold Special Care, of Conway; Sheryl Mack, program coordinator for the Hypertension and Stroke Belt Elimination Initiative, of Charleston; Dr. Bernetha George, retired M.D., of Florence; Dr. Lilly Filler, OB/GYN, of Columbia; Marion Hutchens, medical assistant, of Columbia. Hillary Clinton has been fighting for children and families for 35 years. In Arkansas, she helped bring health care to thousands of rural families. As First Lady, she fought for health care reform, and has the scars to show for it. But Hillary never gave up. She fought for and helped pass the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) which provides health insurance to more than 6 million kids a year nationwide. And as Senator, she fought to expand SCHIP and get 9/11 first responders, veterans and military families the health care they need and deserve. Now, Hillary has a plan to finally achieve universal health care for every American. Specifically, her American Health Choices Plan will:
1. 
: The American Health Choices Plan gives Americans the choice to preserve their existing coverage, while offering new choices to those with insurance, to the 47 million people in the United States without insurance, and the tens of millions more at risk of losing coverage.
2. 
: Americans who are satisfied with the coverage they have today can keep it, while benefiting from lower premiums and higher quality.
3. 
: Relying on consumers or the government alone to fix the system has unintended consequences, like scaled-back coverage or limited choices. This plan ensures that all who benefit from the system share in the responsibility to fix its shortcomings.
4. 
: Senator Clinton's plan will:
5. 
:
To learn more about Hillary Clinton's universal health care plan, visit 
. .