 "In 2002, Hillary Clinton voted to authorize military action in Iraq … because she believed it was the right thing to do."
 (H. J. Res. 114, CQ Vote #237: Passed 77-23: R 48-1; D 29-21; I 0-1, 10/11/02, Clinton Voted Yea)
 "If left unchecked, Saddam Hussein will continue to increase his capacity to wage biological and chemical warfare, and will keep trying to develop nuclear weapons."
 "He has also given aid, comfort and sanctuary to terrorists, including Al-Qaeda members."
 "So it is with conviction that I support this resolution as being in the best interests of our nation."
 "[I]f left unchecked, Saddam Hussein will continue to increase his capacity to wage biological and chemical warfare, and will keep trying to develop nuclear weapons." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, 10/10/02)
 "He has also given aid, comfort and sanctuary to terrorists, including Al Qaeda members…" (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, 10/10/02)
 "So it is with conviction that I support this resolution as being in the best interests of our nation." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, 10/10/02)
 "But now that she's running for President, Hillary Clinton has changed her position, even joining with the radical group MoveOn.org in attacking American General Petraeus. Clinton stood silently by when MoveOn.org ran this venomous ad in The New York Times."
 (Charles M. Sennott, "Pressure On For Petraeus," The Boston Globe, 9/13/07)
 (MoveOn.org Political Action Website, "General Petraeus Or General Betray Us?" 
, Accessed 9/13/07)
 "Capitol Hill Democrats rejected a call for votes in both chambers to condemn the attack newspaper ad, run by MoveOn.org, saying Republicans are trying to take attention off what they call the president's failed Iraq policy. … Phil Singer, a spokesman for Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, said his boss would 'keep her focus where it should be, on ending the war.'" (Sean Lengell, "No Democratic Censure For MoveOn Ad," The Washington Times, 9/12/07)
 "The same General she called an expert not long ago."
 "You will take on a difficult role in Iraq at a time of peril … based on your leadership and expertise." Armed Services Committee 1/23/07
 "You will take on a difficult role in Iraq at a time of peril based on your leadership and expertise, but what those of us who are issuing resolutions and statements of disapproval fear is that you are being sent to administer a policy that, frankly, does not reflect your experience or advice or the experience and advice of our most recent example in dealing with ethnic violence; namely, Bosnia." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 1/23/07)
 (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 1/23/07)
 "Now, she is questioning his honesty."
: "The reports that you provide to us really require the willing suspension of disbelief."
 Clinton: "[T]oday you are testifying about the current status of our policy in Iraq and the prospects of that policy. It is a policy that you have been ordered to implement by the president. And you have been made the de facto spokesmen for what many of us believe to be a failed policy. Despite what I view as your rather extraordinary efforts in your testimony both yesterday and today, I think that the reports that you provide to us really require the willing suspension of disbelief." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 9/11/07)
 Clinton: "In any of the metrics that have been referenced in your many hours of testimony, any fair reading of the advantages and disadvantages accruing post-surge, in my view, end up on the downside." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 9/11/07)
 Clinton: "[I] give you tremendous credit for presenting as positive a view of a rather grim reality. And I believe that you, and certainly the very capable people working with both of you, were dealt a very hard hand. And it's a hand that is unlikely to improve, in my view." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Armed Services Committee, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 9/11/07)
 "Just when our troops need all our support to finish the job, Hillary Clinton is turning her back on them. General Petraeus and the brave men and women now serving under him deserve an apology. And our nation deserves better. Senator Clinton, do the right thing. Apologize for your comments and condemn the MoveOn.org ad."
 Clinton: "So the one thing that I would ask General is, please do everything you can to get additional security. The Humvees are turning into death traps, as 
. We don't have enough of the 
 and we haven't even ordered enough and we haven't put them into the theater. If we're going to put these soldiers and marines into these very exposed positions, which this strategy calls for, please come to us; 
. … [L]et's make sure we have every possible piece of equipment and resource necessary to protect these young men and women …" Gen. Petraeus: "
." (Committee On The Armed Services, U.S. Senate, Testimony, 1/23/07)
 (H.R. 2206, CQ Vote #181: Passed 80-14: R 42-3; D 37-10; I 1-1, 5/24/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
$1.6 Billion For Body Armor $2.4 Billion To Help Combat IEDs $3 Billion For Mine Resistant Vehicles (House And Senate Committees On Appropriations, "Summary Of The Fiscal 2007 Supplemental Funding Legislation, Press Release, 5/24/07)
 (Liz Sidoti, "Clinton, Obama Vote ‘No' On Iraq Bill," The Associated Press, 5/25/07)