 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Governor Romney's plan will allow middle class Americans to save tax-free by changing the tax rate on interest, capital gains and dividends to absolutely 0%. By helping more Americans save and invest, we can meet the challenges of an aging population and ensure the financial security of America.
 Any taxpayer with Adjusted Gross Income of under $200,000 would pay a tax rate of absolutely 0% on all of the income they earn from their savings, capital gains and dividends.
 In recent years, over half of adult Americans have participated in the stock market either directly or through pension plans and mutual funds. Tax-free savings will encourage more families to build wealth by saving, investing and participating in the stock market, which will help grow the economy.
 Based on 2005 tax returns:
 Recent housing market difficulties offer an important reason for helping more Americans save and invest. As the market softens, credit has tightened. Therefore lending standards will become much tougher. As exotic loans become less widespread, the traditional practice of saving for a home down-payment will be the new standard. Governor Romney's plan will help Americans save for down-payments and achieve the American dream of home ownership.
 By providing taxpayers with a 0% tax rate on savings, the plan will help homeowners meet their current mortgage payments. This tax cut will put more money into the hands of American homeowners.
 In 2003, the United States passed major cuts in the tax rate on capital gains and dividends, instituting a new, lower top rate of 15%. These tax cuts galvanized our economy. Americans were able to keep more of their capital gains and reinvest in the economy:
 In 2004, the median family income for a four-person family in the United States fell within the $50,000 to $75,000 tax bracket. That year, this income group paid over $796 million in taxes on capital gains. Under Governor Romney's plan, capital gains taxes paid by this income group would have been zero.
 Governor Romney will make the Bush tax relief permanent, cut tax rates for all Americans, abolish the death tax, and make the corporate tax rate more competitive with the rest of the world.