Hillary Clinton released her plan to fight cancer today as she appeared at Lance Armstrong's LIVESTRONG Presidential Cancer Forum in Cedar Rapids, IA.
Cancer is the leading cause of death in this country for people under age 85. One in two men and one in three women will get cancer in their lifetime. About 1.4 million new cancer cases are expected in the United States in 2007, and more than 1,500 people per day will die of cancer. NIH estimates the overall cost of cancer in the U.S. in 2006 was about $206 billion for direct medical costs and lost productivity due to illness and early death. As President, Hillary Clinton will invest the necessary resources so that our nation is on a path to achieve the National Cancer Institute's goal of ending death and suffering from cancer by 2015 through:
 Today, insurance companies spend millions of dollars working to discriminate against those with expensive, pre-existing conditions by denying them coverage or treatment. Cancer patients are those most victimized by insurance company practices of trying not to cover care when it's needed most. In order to end insurance discrimination, Hillary Clinton will:
 Today, many Americans, especially those with a history of cancer in their family, are fearful of getting genetic tests, because they are worried they will be denied health insurance even though these tests could enable them to make changes in their lifestyle or obtain more regular screenings that could save their lives. Senator Clinton believes in the power and the promise of genetic testing to do good, but does not want to see these tests exploited to harm the very people who are at greatest risk for getting cancer. Hillary will prohibit health insurance companies from discriminating against individuals or their families on the basis of a genetic test. Insurance companies would not be allowed to require genetic tests or consider the results of any test when determining eligibility for or cost of health insurance.
 Cancer research has made remarkable progress in prevention, detection, and treatment. According to the American Cancer Society, the absolute number of cancer deaths declined for the second consecutive year last year. Despite these advances, research funding is not keeping pace. During the Clinton Administration, the NIH budget more than doubled – from $8.9 billion in 1992 to $20.5 billion in 2001. It then grew to $27 billion by 2003. But adjusting for inflation, the NIH has not been increased over the past four years. Since 2003, funding has fallen behind medical inflation and in 2006, the NIH budget was cut for the first time in 35 years. Today, the National Cancer Institute has 12% less purchasing power than it had four years ago. The American Association for the Advancement of Science predicts that the percentage of NIH proposals receiving funds will be cut nearly in half by the end of 2007, compared with 2001 levels. As a result, cancer programs have stalled at major centers across the country; clinical trial accrual has slowed, and in some cases, clinical trials have been abandoned for lack of resources. Young researchers are turning to other career opportunities because of the uncertainty of future funding, and many of the best and brightest no longer see the promise of a career in science. In 1970, the average age of a first research grant was 34.2 years; today it is 41.7. If the current situation continues, there will be lasting damage, even if funding is increased in future years. As President, Hillary Clinton will:
 According to the National Cancer Legislation Advisory Committee, we could prevent up to two-thirds of all deaths from cancer if Americans consumed a healthy diet, got their cancer screenings, used sunscreen and minimized sun exposure, exercised, and refrained from smoking. Timely and regular mammograms can prevent 30 percent of all deaths from breast cancer in women over 40. If all adults over 50 were screened for colon cancer, we would cut the death rate in half and save 30,000 lives each year. Almost a third of all cancer deaths are the result of tobacco use. Early detection and treatment not only saves lives; it saves money. Treating a precancerous lesion found in Pap smear costs $1,000 to $2,000. Treating a cancerous lesion costs 30 times that. Hillary will promote a five-tiered approach to preventing and detecting cancer early:
 Nearly 45 million Americans lack health insurance and about 16 million more are underinsured. Studies consistently show that those who lack insurance or who are underinsured have higher cancer mortality rates than those with high quality coverage, yet for cancer patients, or those at high risk of obtaining cancer, securing and maintaining high quality insurance can be an uphill battle. One out of every four cancer patients with insurance use up all or most of their life savings while treating their cancer because of the extraordinary costs of cancer drugs. Universal health care with a high quality meaningful prescription drug benefit will help those without insurance and those with underinsurance obtain the treatment they need.