 – At today's LIVESTRONG Presidential Cancer Forum sponsored by cancer survivor and seven-time Tour de France winner Lance Armstrong, Senator John Edwards announced his aggressive blueprint for a National Strategy for Cancer Survivorship and underscored America's need for universal healthcare.
"Thirty-six years ago, America declared 'war on cancer,'" Edwards said. "While great progress has been made, too many Americans are still dying from cancer. We need an aggressive and coordinated strategy that will ensure that Americans are diagnosed earlier and receive the highest quality of care. I want any man or woman who faces this diagnosis to have access to the same high-quality care that Elizabeth has received."
Edwards' National Strategy for Cancer Survivorship starts with his plan for true universal health care -- the first and only offered by any candidate -- including guaranteed coverage for screenings and treatment. New initiatives include more testing and reporting of common chemicals that may be increasing Americans' cancer risks; expanded NIH cancer research funding; and a national research program to study environmental risk factors.
A detailed fact sheet outlining Edwards' National Strategy for Cancer Survivorship is attached. For more information about John Edwards' plans for a National Strategy for Cancer Survivorship and to guarantee universal health care to every American, please visit 
.
In July, Edwards and Armstrong rode together as part of the Register's Annual Great Bicycle Ride Across Iowa (RAGBRAI).
"We must support Americans living with cancer, and their families. I want any man or woman who faces a diagnosis of cancer to have the same high-quality care that my wife, Elizabeth, has received." -- John Edwards
Thirty-six years ago, an American president declared "war on cancer." President Nixon aimed at finding "a cure" and eradicating cancer. Americans – Democrats and Republicans working together – have won many battles since then. While cancer remains the number-one killer of people under 85, fewer Americans are dying from cancer: the five-year survival rate is 66 percent, up from 50 percent roughly 30 years ago. Today, in part because of the hard work of scientists, medical providers, family members and other caregivers, we can talk about 10.5 million cancer survivors and people living with cancer, and not just cancer victims. To keep America moving forward, John Edwards understands that more is needed than just fighting the disease to help individuals and families live strong while living with cancer. [ACS, 2007; NCI, 2003]
Today, Edwards outlined an aggressive blueprint for a National Strategy for Cancer Survivorship. The foundation of the blueprint is Edwards' plan for true universal health care that will help ensure that Americans with cancer are diagnosed earlier and receive the highest quality care. Edwards' announcement puts four pillars on top of the foundation – supporting families; strengthening research; reducing risk factors; and closing health disparities. Building from this blueprint, America can develop a comprehensive and coordinated multi-agency strategy to take the next important steps in the fight against cancer.
We have two health care systems in this country today – one for people who can afford the very best care and one for everyone else. True universal health care is the foundation for Edwards' strategy for cancer survivorship. He has proposed a detailed plan to take on the big insurance companies and HMOs, and guarantee that every American can get the care they need, when they need it. As president, he will:
Few people fight cancer by themselves. When a family member is diagnosed with cancer, all their relatives and friends are affected by the diagnosis too. To help support families living with cancer, Edwards will:
We need to step up our research efforts to find the causes of cancer, as well as better treatments. And that research must be transparent, accountable and be driven by science, not ideology. As president, Edwards will:
Some types of cancer can be prevented through lifestyle changes or making the environments in which we live and work safer. About 190,000 cancer deaths are caused by obesity, poor nutrition and lack of exercise. Radon, asbestos, pollution and other toxic substances in everyday life also contribute to high incidences of cancer. [ACS, 2005; Field et al., 2000; NCI, undated]
To reduce the incidence of cancer, Edwards will:
Low-income families, limited English language speakers and people of color are less likely to receive quality care. Because people of color are more likely to be diagnosed with cancer and less likely to receive timely and effective treatment, they also experience higher cancer mortality rates. For example, death from cancer is 40 percent higher among African American men than white men and 20 percent higher among African American women than white women. [Garner, 2003; Goel, 2003; ACS, 2004]
To make closing health disparities an urgent priority, as president, Edwards will: