 – Today, Senator John Edwards will visit New Orleans to participate in Senator Mary Landrieu's "Hope & Recovery" Summit, where he will announce six new proposals to strengthen recovery efforts in New Orleans and prevent another failure in federal response on the scale of what happened after Katrina and Rita hit. These proposals build on Edwards' existing plan to help the Gulf Coast rebuild.
"Our government's response to Hurricane Katrina has been a national shame," said Edwards. "But while our government continues to fail the people of New Orleans, the American people continue to take action to help rebuild. As president, I will make sure that our government does everything in its power to help New Orleans recover. We are not the country of the Superdome in New Orleans after Katrina. We can prove it by fulfilling our moral responsibility to get New Orleans back on its feet."
Edwards has visited New Orleans several times to help with rebuilding efforts. He announced his candidacy for president in New Orleans in December 2006. In the spring of 2006, he took 700 college students to the area to help rebuild.
Edwards' new proposals address the health care crisis and spur economic growth in the health care sector, make the streets safe with a surge of federal resources, bring back residents by fully funding the Road Home program and addressing rental housing needs, hold government and private contractors accountable for waste, fraud and abuse, put someone in charge of federal recovery and rebuilding efforts and with "Brownie's Law," make sure political appointees at agencies like FEMA are actually qualified for the jobs to which they are appointed.
As president, Edwards will help New Orleans get back on his feet by:
For more details on these proposals and Edwards' existing agenda to get New Orleans back on its feet, please read the fact sheet below.

- John Edwards
Almost two years after President Bush promised to rebuild New Orleans on national television from Jackson Square, vast stretches of the city and St. Bernard Parish remain deserted. Based on mail delivery data, the city's population is barely two-thirds of what it once was and according to the latest data from FEMA, more than 73,000 families from the Gulf are still living in FEMA trailers. [GNOCDC/Brookings, 2007; FEMA, 4/25/07; FEMA, 7/31/07]
The pace of recovery is slow. The displaced African-American population, in particular, has been slow to return. Murders have spiked - already the most dangerous city in the country, the number of murders this year is running 25 percent higher than in 2006. At the end of this past school year, only 45 percent of New Orleans public schools operating pre-Katrina had re-opened. [GNOCDC/Brookings, 2007; Calgary Herald, 8/25/2007]
One bright spot for the region is the growing potential for a new biomedical corridor in the city. In July, John Edwards called for the Veterans Administration to site a new veterans medical center in downtown New Orleans, linked to a new state-funded hospital. On August 21, the VA announced its preliminary decision to do exactly that. The two new institutions will form the core of the biomedical corridor, helping meet the area's complex health needs and reviving health care as an economic engine for the region.
Building on his existing agenda to help the Gulf Coast rebuild, John Edwards today announced six new proposals to strengthen recovery efforts in New Orleans and prevent another failure in federal response on the scale of what happened after Katrina and Rita hit. The new proposals address the health care crisis and spur economic growth in the health care sector, make the streets safe with a surge of federal resources, bring back residents by fully funding the Road Home program and addressing rental housing needs, hold government and private contractors accountable for waste, fraud and abuse, put someone in charge of federal recovery and rebuilding efforts and make sure political appointees at agencies like FEMA are actually qualified for the jobs to which they are appointed.
John Edwards launched both his presidential campaign and his Road to One America tour in New Orleans because he believes that the challenge of building One America starts right here. In the spring of 2006, he took 700 college students to the area to help with rebuilding efforts. Edwards has announced a three-part plan for rebuilding the Gulf: (1) rebuilding infrastructure - housing, schools, and hospitals - that is built to last so that people have something to come back to, (2) creating jobs to bring them back, (3) making the region safe from storms - with levees that can withstand another Katrina, and strengthening public safety to keep residents safe from crime.