NEW ORLEANS, LA -- During a visit to New Orleans today, U.S. Senator Barack Obama announced his plan to rebuild the Gulf Coast, and ensure that such catastrophic failures in emergency response never happen again.
"America failed the people of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast long before that failure showed up on our television sets. America failed them again during Katrina. We cannot -- we must not -- fail for a third time," Obama said. But tragically, that's what's happening today. And that's what needs to change. I am here to remember this, but also to look ahead. We need to rebuild this city. And we need to tend to the foundation that we rebuild upon."
Senator Obama, who in the days following Katrina traveled to Houston to meet with displaced residents, and continued to travel to New Orleans to assess the city's recovery over the past two years, once again returned to New Orleans today. Speaking at First Emanuel Baptist Church and walking with local residents around New Orleans' Gentilly neighborhood, Obama laid out the specific steps he will take as president to move the region's recovery forward and ensure that the next time disaster strikes, the government is ready.

Barack Obama's comprehensive plan, which can be viewed 
, includes:
"Let New Orleans be the place where we strengthen those bonds of trust, where a city rises up on a new foundation that can be broken by no storm," Obama said. Let New Orleans become the example of what America can do when we come together, not a symbol of what we couldn't do."
This is Obama's fourth visit to New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina and comes days before the two year anniversary of the disaster. Since the catastrophe, Obama has successfully pushed legislation in the U.S. Senate to plan for evacuation of people with special needs, create a centralized federal database to account for individuals displaced in an emergency and fight wasteful no-bid contracts. Additionally, along with other members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Senator Obama has worked to address the immediate income, employment, business and housing needs of Gulf Coast communities affected by the storm.