 – Today, the Edwards family continued their four-day 'Fighting for One America' bus tour across New Hampshire. Senator John Edwards discussed his plan for a new direction in trade and economic policies that put workers and regular families – not corporations – first.
"For too long, corporations and their lobbyists have written our trade and economic policies at the expense of workers," Senator John Edwards said. "We need to reject these failed policies of the past. It is time to put workers and families first with a trade policy that is as innovative as the American people.
"People across America, and here in the North Country, have been really hurt by unfair trade and economic policies that only reward those at the top," Edwards continued. "That is why I am fighting to take our country in a new direction: towards one America where every family has a fair shot at the American Dream."
New Hampshire has been hit hard by unfair trade and economic policies:
Edwards continues to drive the Democratic agenda with his specific ideas to transform our country. While many Washington politicians continue to offer only rhetoric, empty talk and half-measures, Edwards is offering courage, conviction and bold ideas to build One America.
The final day of the tour will focus on the critical issue of ending the war in Iraq and honoring our veterans.
NOTE – A fact sheet on Edwards' bold plan is below.
"The policies of the past have created Two Americas—one favored, the other forgotten. I want to live in an America where we value work as well as wealth, and where our trade and economic policies benefit regular families, not just multinational corporations and their lobbyists. I know that together we can build One America—a place where everyone has a fair shot at the American Dream." -- John Edwards
With Washington dominated by powerful special interests, it is no coincidence that the benefits of our economic and trade policies are enjoyed by increasingly few individuals and multinational corporations. Over the last 20 years, American incomes have grown apart: 40 percent of the income growth in the 1980s and 1990s went the top 1 percent. Between 2001 and 2005, the top 1 percent of households gained $268 billion of total income and the bottom 90 percent lost $272 billion, or $2,071 per household. Over the same period, corporate profits nearly doubled. New Hampshire has lost 5,500 jobs due to NAFTA. [EPI, 2006; Saez, 2007; EPI, 2007; CBS Marketwatch, 3/30/2006; EPI, 2006]
John Edwards outlined his agenda to put our economic and trade policies back in line with American values, and back on the side of regular families. To create One America where everyone's hard work is rewarded and families can build a better life, he will:
 In America today, most families are working harder and struggling to get by. Our economy is growing and the productivity of our workers is at an all-time high, but corporate interests in Washington have rigged the system so that the benefits accrue to a privileged few. To put our economy back in line with our values, John Edwards will: