 – Today, the Edwards family will conclude their four-day 'Fighting for One America' bus tour across New Hampshire. Senator John Edwards discussed his bold plan to end the war in Iraq and improve medical care and the disability claims process for veterans.
"Elizabeth and I really enjoyed this tour and thank the people of New Hampshire for their hospitality," Edwards said. "This was a great opportunity to talk to people across the state and to ask for their support in this effort to bring about the real change our country needs.
"We need to change course in our foreign policy and end the war in Iraq and bring our soldiers home to the hero's welcome they deserve," Edwards continued. "That includes honoring the 'Sacred Contract' we have with our soldiers and veterans to provide them with the best possible medical care and process for providing disability benefits."
There are currently about 140,000 veterans living in New Hampshire. 171 have been wounded and 19 killed in Iraq from New Hampshire.
Edwards continues to drive the Democratic agenda with his specific ideas to transform our country. While Washington continues to offer only rhetoric, empty talk and half-measures, Edwards is offering courage, conviction and bold ideas to build one America.
NOTE: A fact sheet on Edwards' bold plan is below. More details can be found at 
.
"I believe in a sacred contract between our country and America's veterans and military families. We must stand by those who stand by us. When our service men and women sacrifice so much to defend our freedom and secure peace around the world, we have a moral obligation to take care of them and their families." -- John Edwards
Under George Bush, our government has not lived up to its responsibility to the men and women who have been injured while serving our country in Iraq and Afghanistan - wars that have already generated more than 220,000 disability claims.. The scandal at Walter Reed is only one example of a consistent failure to take responsibility for those who have sacrificed for our country. Too often, Iraq and Afghanistan veterans who fought for our country encounter a system that takes months or even years to make benefit determinations, and that forces them to fight again for benefits. [LA Times, 7/24/2007]
The Washington Post recently reported on Army Specialist Jeans Cruz, one of the team who helped capture Saddam Hussein. He was called a war hero when he came home to his country. He soon suffered debilitating depression from his experiences in Iraq. After filing a claim for disability benefits based on post-traumatic stress disorder, he was turned down by the VA because they said his psychological problems existed before joining the Army. He told the paper, "My experience so far is, you ask for something and they deny, deny, deny. After a while you just give up." [Washington Post, 6/17/07]
John Edwards will not give up on our veterans. He believes we can do better through reforms that will help our injured warriors and make government work more efficiently and effectively.
Edwards has previously announced a plan to repair our country's Sacred Contract with our veterans and military families by guaranteeing quality health care, supporting military families and providing education and economic opportunities for civilian life. Today, Edwards built on his existing Sacred Contract proposal with a new 5-point "Standing by Our Heroes" plan to help returning service men and women with disabilities by: