 "Governor Romney's health care reform plan is a comprehensive solution to America's health care ills that expands access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance. But rather than relying on a one-size-fits-all, government-run system, Governor Romney's plan recognizes the importance of the role of the states in leading reform and the need for innovation in dealing with rising health care costs and the problem of the uninsured." (Romney For President, "Expanding Access To Affordable Health Care," Press Release, 8/24/07)
 "But [Gov. Romney] will also aim to reassure conservatives by saying that a 'one size fits all' solution isn't right for the 50 states. As for why he would use a different philosophy as president than as governor, they say he would have greater powers in the White House. 'Massachusetts didn't have the federal tax code to play with,' said Glenn Hubbard, a former Bush administration chief economist, now advising the Romney campaign." (Mary Jacoby and Sarah Lueck, "Romney's Federal Prescription," 
, 8/24/07)
 "In a speech before the Florida Medical Association in Hollywood, Fla., Mr. Romney will present a program that won't include new government mandates for individuals or companies to buy coverage, policies long considered anathema by many conservatives - and that were features of the program enacted in Massachusetts." (Mary Jacoby and Sarah Lueck, "Romney's Federal Prescription," 
, 8/24/07)
- 
 (Steven Thomma, "Romney's Health Care Fix," 
, 8/24/07)
 "Governor Romney believes that by expanding and deregulating the private health insurance market, we can decrease costs and ensure that more Americans have access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance." (Romney For President, "Expanding Access To Affordable Health Care," Press Release, 8/24/07)
 "Instead, Mr. Romney plans to focus on tax breaks and streamlining regulations, policies his advisers say would essentially create a new, freer market for health insurance, driving down costs and providing incentives for individuals to buy their own plans. It is an approach President Bush and many Republican economists have embraced." (Mary Jacoby and Sarah Lueck, "Romney's Federal Prescription," 
, 8/24/07)
 (MSNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Simi Valley, CA, 5/3/07)
 "As Governor of Massachusetts, Governor Romney successfully led the effort for comprehensive health care reform, and he recognizes that the federal government must do what it can to facilitate effective change at the state level. His reforms will give states greater flexibility. But Governor Romney's conservative reforms also make the states true partners in the effort to expand access to affordable, quality health insurance." (Romney For President, "Expanding Access To Affordable Health Care," Press Release, 8/24/07)
 GOV. ROMNEY: "I'm delighted with the fact that we in our state worked together across the aisle, Republicans and Democrats, to find a way to get health care for all of our citizens that's affordable and that's portable. ... The Heritage Foundation worked on it with us. We had people on both sides of the aisle." (MSNBC, Republican Presidential Candidate Debate, Simi Valley, CA, 5/3/07)
 "Lawmakers overwhelmingly approved the bill Tuesday. The plan hailed as a national model would dramatically expand access to health care over the next three years. ... The House approved the bill on a 154-2 vote. The Senate endorsed it 37-0." (Steve LeBlanc, "Romney Set To Sign Bill To Require Health Insurance For All," 
, 4/5/06)


 (ABC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Des Moines, IA, 8/19/07)
 SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "Passage of a universal health coverage plan will be one of my top priorities as president. It is time for bold yet practical solutions and I will use today's encouraging news to continue my efforts to build support for universal health care." (Hillary For President, "Statement Of Hillary Clinton On Announcement Of The 'Better Health Care Together' Campaign," Press Release, 2/7/07)
 SEN. CLINTON: "But more important, we have to have a sense of national commitment that universal health care is an American value." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)
 "Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton rolled out the second stage of her health care policy Thursday, promising to improve quality by raising standards for providers, educating patients and requiring insurers to reward innovation ... She started with a speech in June on reducing costs, followed by Thursday's address on quality, and will outline her plan for universal health care coverage next month." (Holly Ramer, "Step 2 Of Clinton Health Care Policy," 
, 8/23/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Step 2 Of Clinton Health Care Policy," The Associated Press, 8/23/07)
 "But in the longer term, it's a just one more step on the road to 'HillaryCare' - the program of government-run, universal health-care that Americans rejected so decisively in the early Clinton years. The problem, as the Clinton plan foretold, is that eventually bureaucrats will decide which medical procedures are covered and which aren't, with patients forced to see a government-approved doctor instead of choosing their own, and health-care services rationed (again, by bureaucrats) to hold down costs." (The Heritage Foundation Website, 
, Accessed 8/14/07)
 "Wives can be crucial factors in presidential triumphs - and fiascos. The biggest policy failure of Bill Clinton's presidency, his health care reform plan, has been blamed in large part on Hillary Clinton, who headed the task force that drafted the proposal." (Editorial, "Behind The Scenes, First Ladies Are First Advisers," 
, 6/14/04)
 "'I have never advocated socialized medicine,' the former first lady replied. 'That has been a right-wing attack on me for 15 years.' Unfortunately, some of us still have copies of the 1,300-page proposed 'Health Security Act' crafted by Mrs. Clinton's secret committee in 1993. Under it, a patient who 'stepped out of line' and offered to pay cash for a doctor's services would have been subject to criminal penalties. ... That's socialized medicine." (Editorial, "Left-Wing Lies," 
, 8/13/07)
 '"At the time, of course, her foray into the health care field looked like a fiasco, not only for her husband's administration but for her future political aspirations,' said David Epstein, of professor of political science at Columbia University. 'She handled it without much political delicacy.'" (Sarah Liebowitz, "Clinton Cautious On Care," Concord [New Hampshire] Monitor, 7/10/07)
 "The task force staff swelled to 500, and eventually cost taxpayers more than $9 million." (Sarah Liebowitz, "Clinton Cautious On Care," 
 [New Hampshire] 
, 7/10/07)

(Paul Craig Roberts, Op/Ed, "Hillary's Health-Care Team Needs An Injection Of Reality," 
, 5/10/93)

(Stephen Chapman, Op/Ed, "Hillary On Health Care: The Perils Of Arrogance," 
, 5/30/93)

(Wolf Blitzer, "Bill And Hillary Take Partisan Hard Line On Health Care," CNN, 8/10/94)

("Hillary Clinton Steps Down From Health Care Position," 
, 11/3/94)

(Michael Sneed "Hillary 'Sorry' About Health Care," 
, 1/10/95)