 – Today, the Edwards family continued their four-day 'Fighting for One America' bus tour across New Hampshire. Senator John Edwards discussed his bold plan to provide truly universal health care to all Americans and outlined his plan to add 100,000 new nurses within five years.
"Elizabeth and I are really enjoying our tour of New Hampshire," Senator John Edwards said. "People have been asking excellent questions and we are having detailed discussions about how we are going to build one America together."
"One of the most important issues we hear about is health care," Edwards continued. "That is why I am proud that I was the first candidate to announce a health care plan and to have the only plan that is truly universal. But to ensure every person gets quality care, we also need to address our nursing crisis. Nurses are the backbone of our health care system, but we're facing a serious shortage with dire consequences for patients and for our health care system. I will fix this crisis so every American gets quality care."
While New Hampshire has more nurses per capita than any other state, the Granite State will have about 27 percent fewer nurses than it needs by the end of the next decade. And nurses are leaving the profession -- only 62 percent of nurses in New Hampshire today are working full-time.
Below please find a fact sheet on Senator Edwards' bold plan to address the nursing crisis in this country.
Edwards continues to drive the Democratic agenda with his specific ideas to transform our country. While Washington continues to offer only rhetoric, empty talk and half-measures, Edwards is offering courage, conviction and bold ideas to build one America.
The next two days of the tour will focus on additional critical issue facing America -- providing economic fairness and rewarding work; and ending the war in Iraq and honoring our veterans.
"Nurses are the backbone of our health care system. We cannot provide true universal health care without strengthening that backbone. We need to make a serious investment in the nursing profession, starting today." -- John Edwards
Nurses are the backbone of our health care system, yet there are far fewer nurses than our hospitals, health clinics, and nursing homes need. As a result, Americans are paying more and getting less from their health care.
John Edwards has offered a bold, detailed plan to take on the big insurance and drug companies to guarantee true universal health care for every American. His plan emphasizes prevention, primary care and pro-active management of chronic diseases. To ensure his plan succeeds and delivers quality health care for everyone, we must address the nursing crisis. As president, Edwards will invest the resources we need to add 100,000 nurses within five years – by bringing back 50,000 RNs who have left the profession, while retaining even more, and graduating 50,000 new nurses.
Edwards will keep skilled nurses from leaving the profession and bring back former nurses. Bringing back just 10 percent of the nurses who have left the profession will increase the number of veteran nurses serving America's patients by about 50,000. Edwards will:
Educating and training the next generation of health care workers is essential to meet the increased demand of a universal health care system. To add 50,000 new nurses to the profession within five years, Edwards will: