Today in Lebanon, New Hampshire, Hillary Clinton outlined her plan to improve the quality of health care for all Americans.
As President, Hillary would fundamentally reform the nation's health care system by lowering costs, improving quality, and covering all Americans. Earlier in the campaign, she announced a multi-faceted plan to lower costs and increase value in the nation's health care system, which taken together would lower national health spending by at least $120 billion a year. Today, she announced several proposals that build on those initiatives to ensure high quality care by empowering health professionals, patients, and private and public payers to improve the financing and delivery of health care that every American receives. And next month, she will unveil her proposals to ensure universal coverage, so that every American will have quality, affordable health care.
Hillary's agenda returns patients to the center of the health care system again by empowering and relying on the skill of those who provide care - physicians, nurses, other clinicians, and health care organizations - to improve that care continually.
While health care in the U.S. has enormous strengths, many Americans worry about the quality of care they receive. In 2006, a survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and AHRQ found that 51 percent of Americans were dissatisfied with the quality of the American health care system. 
 health care spending in the U.S. is far greater than in any other industrialized country, yet other nations have better health outcomes, including longer life-expectancy, lower rates of obesity and related conditions such as heart disease and diabetes, fewer years of life lost due to failure to treat treatable conditions, and lower infant mortality.
According to a RAND study, adults in the U.S. on average fail to receive about half the recommended care that modern clinical science says they need. In fact, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in 1999 reported that between 44,000 and 98,000 people die each year in our nation's hospitals as a result of preventable injuries from medical care. In short, for the amount of money that we spend in health care, Americans should be getting better quality care. Improving the quality of our health care system can and will reduce costs.
A reformed high-quality healthcare system must include a strong evidence base so we know what treatments work best, a quality measurement infrastructure based on this evidence to assess the quality of care patients receive from their health care providers, the integration of those quality measures into the delivery of care through health information technology, reimbursement incentives and accountability, and a commitment to placing patients at the center of the system, through increased transparency and greater access to information. To achieve this, Hillary will:
 Modernizing our health care system through the use of information technology will empower doctors and other healthcare providers to communicate electronically and will reduce waste and redundancy while improving safety and quality by reducing medical errors. Overall, the RAND Corporation estimates net savings to be $77 billion per year. An up-front and phased-out $3 billion a year investment fund would be provided to help hospitals and doctor's offices adopt and implement HIT. The proposal will give doctors financial incentives to adopt health IT and facilitate adoption of a system where high quality care and better patient outcomes can be rewarded.
 The largest driver of health care costs in the nation is related to the small numbers of Americans who have multiple chronic diseases. These diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes, account for 75 percent of our total national health expenditures and are the leading causes of death in the U.S. A recent RAND study projected nearly $30 billion in national health expenditure savings per year after implementing disease and lifestyle management programs. Combined with prevention and health information technology, with full participation, the U.S. health system could save $147 billion alone for better care of this vulnerable population. Senator Clinton will ensure higher quality and better coordination of care by using state-of-the-art chronic care coordination models within federally-funded programs to provide care for Americans afflicted with these costly, multi-faceted illnesses. She'll provide incentives to participate in these chronic care management programs.
 Patients, providers, and payers would benefit from getting better information on what works in health care and how treatments compare to one another. Researchers at Dartmouth have found that more care is not better care, and that inefficient care may do more harm than good. Therefore she will create a new Best Practices Institute, which would be funded by both the private and public sectors, since its results will benefit all payers. Research will compare the effectiveness of alternative treatments such as pharmaceuticals, devices, and surgeries. For example, information supplied by organizations such as the Drug Effectiveness Review Project (DERP) has been used in North Carolina to educate providers and improve quality of care, saving the state an estimated $80 million in 2003. This research will facilitate the development of quality and outcomes measures for use by hospitals, physicians, nursing homes, and other healthcare providers.