DES MOINES, IA – Iowans for Hillary will celebrate Women's Equality Day by holding 19 events in honor the of 19th Amendment, a cornerstone of the Women's Equality Movement which gave every woman in America the right to vote. When the amendment was signed into law 87 years ago, Americans needed leaders with the strength, leadership and political will to fight for equality, and Iowans for Hillary has assembled a few of this generation's leaders to celebrate this important weekend.
"This Women's Equality Day effort not only commemorates women finally being ensured the right to vote, but also celebrates the women who have broken barriers and shattered stereotypes," said Senator Hillary Clinton. "When I meet young women across the country, I am encouraged by their enthusiasm and am reminded that we need to continue the fight to protect and defend women's rights."
Hillary Clinton supporters who will be visiting these events over the weekend are:
Members of the Iowans for Hillary Women's Leadership Council will gather on Saturday morning to attend the Women's Hall of Fame induction ceremony and reception.
Dolores Huerta to attend house parties to celebrate Women's Equality Day in Sioux City, Mason City and Charles City.
Dolores Huerta to also attend Webster and Buena Vista County Kickoff Meetings.
Lieutenant General Claudia Kennedy to attend a veterans meeting in Davenport.
Lieutenant General Claudia Kennedy to attend the Dubuque Women's Equality Day celebration, the Cedar County Democrats Annual Music Fest and a Women's Equality Day event in Linn County.
Members of the Iowans for Hillary Women's Leadership Council Marti Anderson and Bonnie Campbell will attend women's equality events in Adel, Atlantic, Harlan and Council Bluffs.
Dr. Andy McGuire will attend Women's Equality Day events in Fairfield, Ottumwa, and Knoxville, and the Warren County Kickoff Meeting in Indianola.
Dr. Andy McGuire and Christie Vilsack will attend the Women for a Stronger America celebration in Des Moines.