DERRY, NH - With foreclosure rates continuing to skyrocket across the country, Senator Hillary Clinton in Derry, NH today laid out a plan to preserve the American dream of home ownership that would crack down on unscrupulous brokers, curb mortgage lending abuses, assist families facing foreclosure and expand affordable housing options.
"Today, we have a choice. We can look at the statistics, wring our hands, and continue to do nothing, or we can do what America has always done in times of difficulty: acknowledge that we face a real challenge, and confront it head-on with real solutions," said Clinton. "I think the choice is clear. I think we need to act now, with smart, practical solutions to strengthen our housing and mortgage markets. If I were President, I would address abuses across the mortgage industry with a plan to curb unfair lending practices and hold brokers and lenders accountable, give families the support they need to avoid foreclosure, and increase the supply of affordable housing."
New Hampshire resident Kristi Schofield joined Senator Clinton in Derry today. On July 31st, Kristi and her husband Paul lost their home of eight years in East Hamstead, NH because it had been purchased by the bank at a foreclosure auction. Yesterday, their mortgage company asked them to be out of the house in 17 days. They had planned to raise their three children and spend the rest of their lives in their home, but their adjustable rate mortgage payments continued to climb from $2,400 to its current level of $6,000 a month.
"We tried to do the right thing and continued to make the payments as long as we could with our savings and what earnings we had from unemployment, temporary and part time work. My husband had a good job, we had a great home. We were living our dream. Hillary Clinton is standing up today because she wants to help protect the American dream," said Schofield.
Earlier in the year, the problems in mortgages seemed limited mostly to subprime loans. According to the New York Times, nearly 14 percent of subprime borrowers were delinquent in the first quarter. Now, there is increasing evidence that problems have spread beyond just subprime mortgages. There were 1.3 million foreclosures last year, and there have been more than 900,000 foreclosure filings so far this year. In New Hampshire, there were approximately 150 foreclosure filings last year, but there were more than 1,400 in the first six months of this year. The home is the largest asset most people have. The loss of it affects everything from people's economic security, to their retirement plans, to their ability to pay for their children's education.
To make matters worse, home prices are weakening and sales have slowed. It would now take almost nine months to work off the inventory of unsold homes. And this growing problem with mortgages may be limiting access to credit for middle class families. The Wall Street Journal recently reported that "jittery home-mortgage lenders are cutting off credit or raising interest rates for a growing portion of Americans . . ." This threatens to become another hurdle to home ownership, the greatest source of wealth for average Americans.
"We need to put an end to fly-by-night mortgage brokers peddling loans to unqualified applicants based on inflated appraisals. We need to help those facing the pain of foreclosure. We need to secure the marketplace and put reforms in place right now," said Clinton.
Protecting The Dream Of Home Ownership
Senator Clinton's plan will curb mortgage abuses, assist families facing foreclosure, and expand affordable housing to protect the American dream of home ownership. She will introduce her plan when Congress returns in September.