
– Gov. Mitt Romney
 ROMNEY: "We don't just need a surge on the ground in Iraq – we need a surge of support for our troops as well. Democrats say they support the troops, but many don't support the work they are doing to make the surge successful. Representative Clyburn, the third-highest ranking House Democrat, said it would be a 'real big problem' for Democrats if progress is made in Iraq. That's not a problem but good news for all Americans." (Gov. Mitt Romney, 7/31/07)
 "Romney said it was 'inexcusable' for Democrats and others to publicly claim that this nation has lost the war in Iraq while troops remain in that country." (Robynn Tysver, "Romney: Give Iraq War Plan More Time," 
, 7/28/07)
 ROMNEY: "Let's give General Petraeus and Prime Minister Maliki enough time to see if it is working. If it's working, great. We'll be able to bring home our troops soon. If it's not working, we'll consider the problem at that point." (Robynn Tysver, "Romney: Give Iraq War Plan More Time," 
, 7/28/07)
 ROMNEY: "The congressional debate in Washington has largely, and myopically, focused on whether troops should be redeployed from Iraq to Afghanistan, as if these were isolated issues. Yet the jihad is much broader than any one nation, or even several nations. ... The jihadist threat is the defining challenge of our generation and is symptomatic of a range of new global realities." (Gov. Mitt Romney, "Rising To A New Generation Of Global Challenges," 
, July/August 2007)
 "The former Massachusetts governor has been one of President Bush's staunchest supporters of the war. He routinely talks about the threat of radical Islamists and, he says, their desire to install an Islamic regime around the world. "They want to cause the collapse, the collapse of civilization as we know it," he said." (Robynn Tysver, "Romney: Give Iraq War Plan More Time," 
, 7/28/07)
 "[Clyburn] said Monday that a strongly positive report on progress on Iraq by Army Gen. David Petraeus likely would split Democrats in the House and impede his party's efforts to press for a timetable to end the war. ... Clyburn noted that Petraeus carries significant weight among the 47 members of the Blue Dog caucus in the House, a group of moderate to conservative Democrats. Without their support, he said, Democratic leaders would find it virtually impossible to pass legislation setting a timetable for withdrawal." (Dan Balz and Chris Cillizza, "Clyburn: Positive Report by Petraeus Could Split House Democrats on War," 
, 7/30/07)
 "'I think there would be enough support in that group to want to stay the course and if the Republicans were to stay united as they have been, 
,' Clyburn said. 'We, by and large, would be wise to wait on the report.' ... Many Democrats have anticipated that, at best, Petraeus and U.S. ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker would present a mixed analysis of the success of the current troop surge strategy, given continued violence in Baghdad. But of late there have been signs that the commander of U.S. forces might be preparing something more generally positive. Clyburn said that would be ' 
.'" (Dan Balz and Chris Cillizza, "Clyburn: Positive Report by Petraeus Could Split House Democrats on War," 
, 7/30/07)
 SEN. HILLARY CLINTON: "We've got to figure out what we're doing in Iraq, where our troops are stretched thin, and Afghanistan, where we're losing the fight to al Qaeda and bin Laden." (CNN/YouTube, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)
 "Senate majority leader Harry Reid said yesterday that the war in Iraq is 'lost,' triggering an angry backlash from Republicans who said the top Democrat had turned his back on the troops. ... 'I believe myself that the secretary of state, secretary of defense, and - you have to make your own decisions as to what the president knows - [know] this war is lost and the surge is not accomplishing anything as indicated by the extreme violence in Iraq yesterday,' said Reid, a Nevada Democrat." (Anne Flaherty, "Reid Says War Is 'Lost,' Drawing GOP Rebuke," 
, 4/20/07)