DES MOINES, IA – Today, Iowans for Hillary announced the Statewide Women's Leadership Council for Team Hillary, a grassroots network of women working to make history by electing Hillary, President of the United States. Team Hillary is committed to increasing participation of women in the caucuses for Hillary Clinton.
"Through our social networks, community involvement, church groups and family ties we are determined to organize women who have attended the caucuses before and bring new women into the caucus process to support Hillary Clinton," said former Iowa Attorney General and Director of the Office of Violence Against Women, Bonnie Campbell. "Hillary Clinton has been a leading advocate for women and children in America and around the globe. We are committing our efforts to Hillary's candidacy because she has committed her life's work to helping us."
"Team Hillary is an exciting new component of my campaign in Iowa," said Senator Clinton. "I am honored to have the support and efforts of this talented and hard working group of women leaders across Iowa."
"As an educator, every day I see the impact of Hillary's work," said State Representative Mary Mascher of Iowa City. "Whether it is school lunches for low-income kids, more funding for education initiatives or making college more affordable for students, Hillary's work and dedication is impacting my community and the students I teach."
"As First Lady, Hillary became the leading advocate of universal health care," said Katie Beckett a disability rights activist of Cedar Rapids. "When the political will wasn't there for her to pass universal health care in the 90's, she didn't give up the fight. Instead she played an instrumental part in the creation of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, which today insures more than five million kids. Hillary has the experience to create the change we need in America."
Following is a list of the 105 women making up the initial Statewide Women's Leadership Council: (Titles for identification purposes only)