 Announced in February 2001, the New Freedom Initiative is President George W. Bush's plan to tear down barriers to full integration into American life that remain for many of the 54 million Americans with disabilities. This report highlights the many accomplishments of the Administration in implementing the President's vision and builds upon the reports issued in May 2002 and May 2004.
 The Administration supports the development of creative ways to leverage the power of new technologies and the removal of financial barriers to acquisition of assistive technology. The Administration has:
 In order to further this goal and ensure that no child with a disability is left behind in the educational system, the President has emphasized the importance of including youth with disabilities in the annual improvement mandated by the No Child Left Behind Act. Agencies have responded to the President's direction and furthered his agenda in the following ways:
 The unemployment rate for persons with disabilities, while falling, remains unacceptably high. Including persons with disabilities into the workforce is an important goal not only because of the positive impact it will have on the worker but also because of the benefits to the economy as a whole as production increases and people begin to leave government assistance. The Administration has:
 This includes the opportunity to vote, to participate in the marketplace, to own their own property, and to go about their business free of barriers to full participation. This commitment includes implementation of the 
 decision affirming the right of persons with disabilities to live in their own communities, and goes further by creating new initiatives to promote community participation. The Administration has:
 The Administration, through the programs outlined in this document and others, will aggressively pursue innovative strategies to ensure that people with disabilities are included in the American Dream, and empowered to reach their full educational, social, and professional goals.