Today in Waukee, IA, Hillary Clinton outlined her plan to ensure that elderly consumers are protected from fraud and deceptive marketing in the long-term care insurance market.
While private long-term care insurance plays an important role in safeguarding the health, well-being, and financial security of elderly people, a number of recent reports have highlighted widespread use of deceptive and fraudulent practices by insurers to increase costs or deny benefits to insured consumers. Insurers have refused to pay benefits based on fine-print technicalities, jacked-up premiums without warning, and overzealously marketed policies without providing clear information about their drawbacks. When long-term care insurance is revealed as a false promise, it hits seniors at their most vulnerable moments, threatening health crises and financial devastation for entire families. It also increases costs for taxpayers, as the burden is shifted onto Medicaid, which already devotes 40 percent of its spending to long-term care. And it threatens to destabilize nursing homes and hospitals that rely on the stability of revenue from their patients to engage in long-term planning.
This issue is particularly important in Iowa, which has the 3rd largest population of residents over 85 in the country, and the 4th largest market penetration in long-term care insurance, with 128,000 Iowans holding policies.
Hillary believes we need a vibrant market for long-term care insurance, but that we also need safeguards to ensure that seniors receive the care and support they need and have rightly paid for. As a member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, Hillary has been fighting for increased consumer protections in the long-term care insurance market. In March 2007, she called for an investigation into allegedly fraudulent and deceptive practices by major long-term care insurers. 
 Among the new protections Hillary proposed are:
Hillary will achieve these changes by requiring that long-term care insurance companies that receive federal tax preferences abide by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) 2006 Model Regulations. She will also require all private insurers that want to participate in the Federal Employees Health Benefit Program (FEHBP) market demonstrate that they are complying with the NAIC regulations for all their customers—because all American consumers deserve the same protections that members of the federal government enjoy.
Finally, Hillary is committed to extending care for those without long-term care insurance as well. She passed the Medicaid Home and Community Based Services Program that allows states to offer home and community-based services through Medicaid to provide an option for low-income seniors who are able to remain independent and in their own homes and communities. This law also saves state and federal dollars since home and community based care is less expensive than nursing home care. Iowa was the first state to act on this new law.