 – As Senator John Edwards' "Fighting for One America" tour continues across Iowa, Edwards showed the strength of his campaign by announcing the support of more than 1,000 Iowans from rural communities in all 99 counties who have agreed to caucus for him. Edwards also outlined a comprehensive strategy to help young people in rural America find opportunity close to home so they aren't forced to leave their communities.
"Too many small towns in America are turning into ghost towns as young people move away to find opportunity elsewhere," Edwards said. "As president, I will lead an aggressive effort to reverse the loss of jobs and opportunity in rural towns like the one I grew up in. I believe we can revitalize and reenergize rural economies with new industries so that young people can find good jobs in their own community. At the same time, we need to stand up to big agribusiness conglomerates and their Washington lobbyists and make sure that family farmers can earn a decent living."
The announcement of the 1,000 rural supporters shows Edwards' growing support in rural Iowa. It also reflects his broad appeal to rural voters like those in Iowa and other swing states that will decide the general election – support based on Edwards' detailed and bold agenda to invest in rural communities and his long track record of standing up for rural towns like the one he grew up in. In April, the Edwards campaign became the first campaign in either party to announce a Rural Chair for all 99 counties in Iowa. These Rural Chairs are helping to organize support for Edwards among their friends and neighbors, and played a key role in recruiting the 1,000 rural supporters.
In April, Edwards proposed a Rural Recovery Act to revitalize rural America. Today, Edwards expanded on this proposal, outlining an aggressive strategy to ensure that young people can find opportunities in rural America. Details of the new strategy include:
A detailed summary of the new proposal is below. The Edwards campaign has launched a blog on its Iowa webpage featuring updates, photos, and video about the seven-day "Fighting for One America" bus tour. To follow along with the trip, Iowans are invited visit 
.
Too often, politicians in Washington have looked out for big business and ignored the challenges facing rural America. Many small towns in Iowa are struggling: rural workers in the state earn 23 percent less than urban workers. Rural manufacturing has been hit particularly hard by unfair trade practices that privilege multinational corporations' interests over those of workers. As young people move away, small towns are turning into ghost towns. Born in a small town, John Edwards knows the struggles of rural families and believes that America cannot turn its back on the rural communities that are the keepers of American values like family, work, community, and freedom. Today, Edwards outlined initiatives to restore economic fairness and create new jobs and businesses in rural Iowa and rural areas across America, help struggling counties and towns, and protect the rural way of life. [USDA, 2007]
Over the 1990s, Iowa lost one-third of its college graduates and ranked number two in out-migration of single, college-educated youth nationwide. Senior citizens own half of Iowa's farmland, and young farmers are getting priced out of farming by land prices that have risen 77 percent in real terms over the past decade. John Edwards will target 20 percent of his REACH fund for rural entrepreneurs to young adults under 30 and devote new resources to rural youth development programs and beginning farmer initiatives that connect young people with retiring farmers as well as offering grants, loans, and business advice. He will prepare the next generation of Iowa's workers in the new energy economy with his Green Collar Jobs Training Program and high school Green Academies. Finally, he will cut college debt with his College for Everyone program and student loan reforms, offer scholarships to youth who commit to teaching in rural areas and devote resources to smart strategies to fight drug abuse, which has been on the rise among rural youth. [Census Bureau, 2003; New York Times, 8/8/07; USDA, 2007]