 Giuliani: "As you know, for too long those in positions of leadership in the Department have ignored the immigration area — policy, law and budget. Reversing this lack of emphasis and tackling problems long neglected are necessary …" (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To Nina Rao Cameron, INS District Counsel, 11/3/81)
 (Renee Szybala, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 7/9/82)
 GIULIANI: "And in a situation where we have enormous ongoing immigration problems, wouldn't that be a terrible waste of our resources and a diversion from the kinds of things that the President has been doing and the Attorney General has been doing over the last six or seven months 
." NEWSCASTER: "Giuliani says the Administration stands behind its policy of deterring those who come to the United States illegally by holding illegals in detention camps, increasing border controls, and implying sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens." (Miami's Channel 10 News, 2/25/82)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Seventh Annual Baron De Hirsh Meyer Lecture Series, Miami, FL, 4/16/82)
 Giuliani: "This country has neglected to enforce our immigration laws. As a result, we have lost control of our borders. This Administration is committed to enforce its laws — firmly and fairly — so that all people who choose to come here, from whatever nation, will do so in accordance with our laws." (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Statement, 6/14/82)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Joint Press Conference with Governor Pete Wilson (CA), New York, NY, 3/29/95)
 Giuliani: "We just happened to check the numbers and in this part of the state, there were only about 776 deportations last year of people. … Now we send thousands and thousands of names of illegal and undocumented aliens to the INS who have committed crimes. Either accused or convicted of committing crimes. 
 So before there are obligations placed on [city of New York], to turn over the names of children in school or their parents or people who use public hospitals, 
." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Joint Press Conference With Governor Pete Wilson (CA), New York, NY, 3/29/95)
 GIULIANI: "
 We should do everything we can to cut it out, to stop it. 
, both with regard to foreign policy, border patrol, things that are done with regard to deportation, in which a lot more resources should be put into it." (CNN's "Evans & Novak," 7/6/96)
 Giuliani: What the federal government could do is to deport more of the illegal drug dealers that we have in our city which … unfortunately, very few deportations take place of the people who are actually selling drugs who are illegal immigrants …" (CBS' "Face The Nation," 9/22/96)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At The Conference On The New Immigrants, Minneapolis, MN, 9/30/96)
 Giuliani: "[T]he reality is, the Federal Government doesn't deport them. In New York City, which has 400,000 undocumented immigrants, only about 1,500 a year are deported. Under the new legislation, that number would — at most — double to about 3,000 out of 400,000." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At The Conference On The New Immigrants, Minneapolis, MN, 9/30/96)
 Giuliani: "[P]reventing illegal immigration is the job of the Federal Government. The United States has to do a lot better job of patrolling our borders. If we can't stop illegal immigration, then we can't stop drugs and weapons from entering the country, either.." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At The Conference On The New Immigrants, Minneapolis, MN, 9/30/96)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At Harvard University's Kennedy School Of Government, 10/10/96)
 (Richard Pyle, "Source: FBI Links NYC Ploy To Hamas," The Associated Press, 8/1/97)
 Giuliani: "Along these lines, I believe that Congress should also encourage the INS to focus more of its energy and resources on deporting illegal immigrants who commit crimes and endanger the rest of society. New York City spends approximately 36 million dollars to jail illegal immigrants who are criminals. Of the 4,400 illegal immigrants who pass through the jail system only approximately 160 are deported each year. If the federal government is serious about stopping illegal immigration it should work diplomatically with other governments and make our national borders more secure." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Judiciary Committee, U.S. Senate, Testimony, 8/11/97)
 (Brad Branan, "Giuliani Taps Into Valley Funds Again GOP Presidential Hopeful Attends Fresno Fundraiser," The Fresno Bee, 6/29/07)
 "Asked about a new Arizona law that will require suspension or revocation of business licenses of employers which [knowingly hire] illegal immigrants, Giuliani said it appeared to be a response by the state to the federal government's failure to address the issue." (Paul Davenport, "Giuliani: Focus Immigration Efforts On Border Enforcement," The Associated Press, 7/26/07)