 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest radio ad, "Exceptional." The ad highlights Governor Romney's plan to cut back federal funds from cities that adopt sanctuary policies and ignore federal immigration laws. Governor Romney has a record of enforcing our immigration laws. He deputized the State Police to enforce federal immigration law, opposed drivers' licenses for illegal immigrants, and insisted that our children learn in English.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation today in Iowa and New Hampshire. Script and viewing link are below.
In conjunction with the release of the new radio ad, Romney for President is also launching an online ad campaign on his opposition to sanctuary policies. To view the ad graphic, please see: 
 "Immigration laws don't work if they're ignored.
"That's the problem with cities like Newark, San Francisco and New York City that adopt sanctuary policies.
"Sanctuary cities become magnets that encourage illegal immigration and undermine secure borders.
"As Governor, Mitt Romney didn't wait on Washington. He acted to make our immigration laws work.
"Mitt Romney is the exceptional Governor who took a stand so State Police could enforce federal immigration laws.
"Mitt Romney said 'No' to drivers' licenses for those here illegally.
"Mitt Romney insisted on teaching our kids in English.
"And as President, Mitt Romney will cut back federal funds to cities that provide sanctuary to illegal immigrants."
 "Legal immigration is great. But illegal immigration, that we've got to end. And amnesty is not the way to do it."
 "Mitt Romney - an exceptional leader for exceptional new challenges."
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
 "Paid for by Romney for President, MittRomney.com."
 
 "Immigration laws don't work if they're ignored. That's the problem with cities like Newark, San Francisco and New York City that adopt sanctuary policies. Sanctuary cities become magnets that encourage illegal immigration and undermine secure borders."
 Rep. John N. Hostettler (R-IN): "On December 19, 2002, a 42-year-old mother of two was abducted and forced by her assailants into a hideout near some railroad tracks in Queens, New York. ... The NYPD arrested five aliens in connection with that assault. ... Some suggested that the only reason that the three illegal aliens were in the United States, despite their extensive arrest histories, was because the NYPD officers who arrested these aliens previously were barred by a so-called 'sanctuary' policy from contacting the INS. That policy, critics claimed, prevented NYPD officers from contacting the INS when they arrested an illegal alien. We will examine New York City's policy on the NYPD's disclosure of immigration information to the INS. New York's Executive Order, or E.O. 124, barred line officers from communicating directly with the INS about criminal aliens. That executive order was issued by Mayor Ed Koch in 1989 and reissued by Mayors Dinkins and Giuliani." (House Judiciary Committee Website, 
, Posted 2/03)
 (Congressional Research Service, "Enforcing Immigration Law," 
)
 "At the same time, immigrant groups in New Jersey are working with Hackensack, Paterson and other places to pass resolutions prohibiting the police or other city officials from questioning residents about their immigration status, joining Newark and Trenton in becoming so-called sanctuary cities." (Jennifer Medina, "New Haven Welcomes Immigrants, Legal Or Not," 
, 3/5/07)
 "As Governor, Mitt Romney didn't wait on Washington. He acted to make our immigration laws work. Mitt Romney is the exceptional Governor who took a stand so State Police could enforce federal immigration laws."
 "Governor Mitt Romney and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Assistant Secretary Julie L. Myers today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and ICE, which will give specially trained Massachusetts State Troopers the authority to administer and enforce federal immigration laws in the Commonwealth." (Office Of The Governor, "Governor Romney, ICE Sign Immigration Enforcement Pact," Press Release, 12/13/06)
 "Days after Attorney General Tom Reilly reaffirmed his promise not to hunt down companies that hire illegal immigrants, Gov. Mitt Romney has decided to take matters into his own hands. Romney, who is considering a run for president in 2008, has asked his legal counsel to explore the possibility of entering into an agreement with the federal government that would authorize state troopers to arrest illegal immigrants, said spokesman Eric Fehrnstrom yesterday. " (Rebecca Fater, "Romney: State Troopers Should Have Power To Arrest Illegal Immigrants," 
, 6/22/06)
 "Mitt Romney said 'No' to drivers' licenses for those here illegally."
 "'Those who are here illegally should not receive tacit support from our government that gives an indication of legitimacy,' the governor said, echoing arguments that opponents have voiced in the Commonwealth and in other states considering similar license measures. 'If they are here illegally, they should not get driver's licenses,' he said." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Romney Stand Dims Chances Of License For Undocumented," 
, 10/28/03)
 "Mitt Romney insisted on teaching our kids in English."
 "But yesterday, Romney press secretary Shawn Feddeman said the governor will fight all attempts to slow the implementation of English immersion, known on the ballot as Question 2. ... 'He will veto anything that weakens or delays English immersion,' Feddeman said." (Anand Vaishnav, "Romney Firm On English Timetable," 
, 1/24/03)
 (John McElhenny, "Mitt Romney Endorses 'English Immersion' Education Plan," 
, 6/4/02)
 "And as President, Mitt Romney will cut back federal funds to cities that provide sanctuary to illegal immigrants."
 "But at the same time, New York City was a sanctuary city. The mayor said, 'Look, if you happen to be illegal, we want you in New York City.' That's exactly the wrong kind of message to send in my view. And I think we ought to cut off some funding - federal funding to cities that call themselves sanctuary cities, that welcome people into their cities who are illegal and who provide benefits to individuals - other than, of course, emergency health care and education." (Fox News' "Fox & Friends," 8/9/07)
 "In answer to a question about immigration, Romney said as president he would move to deny some federal money to cities which declare themselves 'sanctuaries' for illegal immigrants. Romney told the crowd that 'irks' him. 'We send hundreds of millions of dollars to these cities - even billions of dollars - from the federal government,' Romney said. 'We ought to stop doing that.' Romney wouldn't cut off all federal aid to 'sanctuary cities,' such as assistance for police and fire departments, but he would place a hold on various 'discretionary' federal grants." (O.Kay Henderson, "Romney 'Disappointed' By Ethical Lapses," Radio Iowa, 8/2/07)
 "Romney received loud applause when he blasted cities that openly proclaim they will not pursue deportation of illegal immigrants. He said such 'sanctuary cities' ignore the law. 'That is simply wrong. We've got to stop that,' he said. He added that he sees a clear distinction between legal and illegal immigration and rejected calls to close the border." (Matt Milner, "Romney Fires At Democrat Rivals," 
, 7/28/07)
 "Legal immigration is great. But illegal immigration, that we've got to end. And amnesty is not the way to do it."
 "Legal immigration is great. But illegal immigration, that we've got to end. And amnesty is not the way to do it." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At An Ask Mitt Anything, Derry, NH, 4/3/07)
 "Mitt Romney - an exceptional leader for exceptional new challenges." 
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message." 
 "Paid for by Romney for President, MittRomney.com."
: 