 On the heels of another strong debate performance this weekend where Hillary Clinton displayed once again she has the leadership and experience to bring about the change this country needs, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign today announced the launch of Environmental Leaders for Hillary. The group of 12 environmental activists and community leaders represent communities across the Granite State.
"In order for there to be real change at this profound moment of challenge for our nation, there must be experienced leadership," said Alice Chamberlin, New Hampshire Co-chair of Environmental Leaders for Hillary. "Senator Clinton understands the importance of developing strong and effective policies on energy and the environment. She has championed legislation that encourages development of alternative energy technologies and reduces our dependence on foreign oil."
On July 24, in Portsmouth, NH, Hillary participated in a forum on energy and the environment. There she announced that as part of her plan to address global warming, she would create a "Green Building Fund" (GBF). Through the fund, the federal government would allocate $1 billion annually to states to make grants or low-interest loans to improve energy efficiency in public buildings, such as schools, police stations, firehouses and offices. The GBF will create as many as 50,000 new "green collar" jobs.
In addition, Hillary introduced a plan to Congress to create a Strategic Energy Fund that would inject $50 billion into research, development, and deployment of renewable energy, energy efficiency, clean coal technology, ethanol and other homegrown biofuels, and more. Hillary also supports policies to reduce carbon emissions and other pollution that contribute to global warming.
"Energy efficiency is the cheapest, cleanest, fastest technology we have to cut energy use and reduce emissions. If we do this right, it can be a win, win for our economy and our environment," said Senator Clinton. "I am honored to have such dedicated environmental leaders join my campaign."