 – On the sixth day of Senator John Edwards' "Fighting for One America" tour, Edwards outlined his plan to increase high school graduation rates so more young people have the chance to get ahead. Nationwide, almost a third of students are estimated to drop out of school before earning a high school diploma. Iowa has many great schools and hardworking teachers that have helped put the state well ahead of the national average with an 81 percent graduation rate. Yet, Edwards believes this rate is still unacceptably low and it includes significant racial disparities. As president, he will reform our schools and offer multiple pathways to graduation, including "second-chance" schools for dropouts and alternative schools for at-risk students.
"We need to address the dropout crisis in our country, because we all pay a price when young people who could someday find the cure for AIDS or make a fuel cell work are sitting on a stoop because they didn't get the education they needed," said Edwards. "America is about second chances, and we should make sure all of our children have the chance they need to earn their high school diploma. A good education is the sturdiest ladder to success and we need to do everything in our power to encourage our young people and make sure they have the chance to go as far as their hard work and God-given talents will take them."
Today, Edwards released his plan to help students stay in or return to school and earn their high school degrees. Surveys find that dropouts almost universally express regret over leaving school. Because one size does not fit all children, Edwards believes we must create multiple pathways to high school graduation, so more students graduate and have the chance to achieve success. Edwards' plan will increase efforts to create the opportunities that students need to earn a high school diploma. As president he will:
Today's proposals build on the rest of Edwards' agenda to strengthen schools and make college affordable, which includes:
A detailed fact sheet outlining Edwards' plan to help students stay in or return to school and earn their high school degrees is below.
The Edwards campaign has launched a blog on its Iowa webpage featuring updates, photos, and video about the seven-day "Fighting for One America" bus tour. To follow along with the trip, Iowans are invited visit 
.
More than 50 years after Brown v. Board of Education, we still have two school systems, separate and unequal, now divided by family wealth as well as race. Nationwide, almost of a third of students are estimated to drop out of school before earning a high school diploma. Iowa has many great schools and hardworking teachers that have helped put the state well ahead of the national average with an 81 percent graduation rate. Yet this is still unacceptably low, and includes a significant racial disparity. At nearly 2,000 high schools nationwide - called "dropout factories" - more than 40 percent of students won't graduate. These schools are 10 percent of American high schools and produce about half of its dropouts. At times, high-stakes testing policies have led schools to "push out" low-performing students since the easiest way to raise test scores is to let or even encourage students with low test scores to leave school. [Baron, 2005; Alliance for Excellent Education, 2007; Balfranz and Legters, 2004; Orfield, Losen, Wald and Swanson, 2004]
Strong public schools are critical to achieving One America where everyone has an opportunity to work hard and build a better life. Today, Edwards released his plan to help students stay in or return to school and earn their high school degrees.
John Edwards believes that high school dropout rates are unacceptably high. We must redouble our efforts to create the opportunities that students need to earn a high school diploma with the skills and knowledge they need to continue their education. As president he will:
Today's proposals build on the rest of Edwards' agenda to strengthen schools and make college affordable: