 – On the fifth day of Senator John Edwards' "Fighting for One America" tour, Edwards praised the work of Iowa's biofuels innovators and outlined his plan to accelerate the use of biofuels on America's roads and highways and reduce America's oil imports by 7.5 million barrels a day by 2025. In March, Edwards laid out an aggressive energy plan to fight global warming and create a New Energy Economy in our country.
"Washington is being held captive by big oil companies and their Washington lobbyists, who put profits before helping regular families and finding real solutions to our energy crisis," said Edwards. "Here in Iowa, innovators have created new technologies that will help end America's oil addiction and fight global warming. We need to get biofuels on America's roads and highways so we can cut greenhouse gas emissions, improve public health, and protect our national interest by reducing our dependency on foreign oil."
Edwards believes that with American ingenuity and resolve we can turn the crisis of global warming into an opportunity -- ending our dependence on foreign oil and creating a new energy economy that embraces innovation, brings rural communities back to life and creates new, good-paying jobs.
As part of his plan to speed up the use of biofuels on our roads, Edwards will:
A detailed fact sheet outlining Edwards' plan to put Iowa's biofuels on America's roads is below.
The Edwards campaign has launched a blog on its Iowa webpage featuring updates, photos, and video about the seven-day "Fighting for One America" bus tour. To follow along with the trip, Iowans are invited visit 
.
While Washington is captive to special interests who have blocked real solutions to climate change, innovators in Iowa are leading the way towards the clean, renewable fuels of the future. Ethanol – starch-based today, expanded to include cellulosic tomorrow xE2x80x93 can reduce carbon pollution by 20 to 80 percent compared to gasoline, and biodiesels by up to 78 percent. Iowa is the national leader in ethanol production, with 28 refineries in production and 20 more in construction – along with 13 existing biodiesel refineries. Nearly 100,000 Iowans are already driving flex-fuel cars and refueling at the state's 67 E85 stations. John Edwards has long supported the development of ethanol and other biofuels. Today, he announced his plan to accelerate the use of biofuels on America's roads and highways, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, improving public health and reducing America's oil imports by at least 7.5 million barrels a day by 2025. [Washington Post, 6/14/2007; DOE / USDA, 1998; Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, 2006; DOE, 2007]