Citing an increasing concern over the growing threat of unsafe toys entering the American marketplace, Hillary Clinton today outlined her plan to ensure the safety of toys for children.
Since April, approximately 17 million toys have been recalled in the United States, all made in China. The Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has overseen a total of 39 toy recalls this year. This summer in particular has seen a series of high-profile recalls of toys imported from China:
China produces roughly 80 percent of the toys sold in the United States, and most of the toys in the world. American and global toy companies typically contract with a Chinese manufacturer, which in turn subcontracts part of the production to third parties also located in China. Chinese regulators say more than 10,500 toy makers operate in the country. Mattel alone uses more than 3,000 Chinese companies as contractors or as makers of Mattel-branded items.
Hillary has long been an advocate for toy and product safety, and has repeatedly fought for a strong and active CPSC. In 2001, she took the lead in defeating President Bush's nominee for Chair of the CPSC, Mary Sheila Gall, arguing that as a Commissioner of the agency, Gall's record in protecting consumers' interests against corporations had been dismal – including votes over the years against tougher regulation of bunk beds, baby bath seats, and crayons.
And this past March, when President Bush attempted to install Michael Baroody as CPSC chair, Hillary again spoke out with concerns about his commitment to product safety, citing his position as a longtime lobbyist for the National Association of Manufacturers, which opposes aggressive enforcement of consumer safety rules. Baroody also was to receive a $150,000 severance package — roughly equivalent to his annual salary — from the lobbyist group upon his confirmation to the post. Baroody later withdrew his nomination. President Bush has not made a new nomination at this point.
 In 2007, there is no longer a reason for lead in toys. As President, Hillary would work with the Consumer Product Safety Commission and Congress to ensure that all children's products are lead-free.
 As President, Hillary would require that, effective immediately, all imported toys in at-risk categories (including those containing paint or magnets) be tested by independent third-party testing organizations to assure they do not contain hazardous substances or otherwise pose serious risks to children, before they can be put on the shelves and sold.
 In order to protect consumers and taxpayers from fly-by-night foreign importers, Hillary would allow the CPSC to require the posting of a bond where there are concerns (1) that the CPSC might have to detain and destroy the shipment and (2) that the company will either disappear or abandon the shipment. The CPSC will have discretion to require the bond.
 As President, Hillary will direct a portion of this money to improving the regulation of imports. In real terms, the current budget of the CPSC is half of what it was in 1977, and CPSC desperately needs more resources to address the growing challenge of unsafe imported toys.
 To improve coordination, Customs liaison officers should be appointed to head up cooperative efforts between CPSC and Customs at major points of entry.
 As President, Hillary would authorize a one-time expenditure – separate from the increased budget – to conduct a complete overhaul and modernization of this critical testing facility, which has not had significant improvements in three decades. She will call on the CPSC to expand the facility to prepare for increased usage based on increased inspections.
 Within 60 days of taking office, Hillary will appoint a Chair to lead the Commission and ensure that there is a full complement of commissioners.