 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Governor Mitt Romney addressed the Greer Chamber of Commerce on the pro-growth policies necessary to ensure that our economy remains the leader in the world. Important to the future economic security of South Carolina and our nation, Governor Romney outlined his proposals to cut taxes for all Americans and implement nationwide reform of our tort laws.
 Governor Romney's number one economic priority will be to grow the economy - helping to create good jobs, raise incomes and preserve American strength. Governor Romney believes government should not be an economic burden but instead promote economic strength, innovation and diversity. South Carolina has been a leader in attracting investment and improving its business climate. Industry-financed research and development at South Carolina colleges and universities has risen 102% over the past five years, the third highest growth rate in the country.
 Since breaking ground in 1992, over $5 billion has been invested in the 2.5 million square foot BMW factory that employs 4,500 people. Fifty-one BMW suppliers are now located in the state, creating an additional 10,000 jobs. In deciding to locate in South Carolina, BMW cited, among many factors, the state's workforce, schools, transportation infrastructure and pro-business climate. A study found the total annual economic impact on the region from the factory to be $4.1 billion.
 Governor Romney has proposed making income from interest, dividends and capital gains tax-free for middle-class families in South Carolina. South Carolinians should not have to pay tax penalties as they save for the future.
 In 2004, the median family income for a four-person family in South Carolina fell within the $50,000 to $75,000 tax bracket. That year, this income group paid over $796 million in taxes on capital gains. Under Governor Romney's plan, taxes paid by this income group would have been zero – a $577 average savings for taxpayers.
 Governor Romney will make the Bush tax relief permanent, cut tax rates for all South Carolinians, abolish the death tax and make the corporate tax rate more competitive with the rest of the world.
 These reforms will allow our companies to grow, while at the same time protecting those who deserve compensation for legitimate losses.
 According to a recent report, U.S. tort costs reached $260.8 billion in 2005, which translates to $880 per person. This is an amount greater than the Gross Domestic Product of all but 35 countries in the world. Frivolous lawsuits and outrageous damages awards create a "liability tax" or "tort tax," which are passed along to every consumer in the country.
 Non-Economic damages are inherently speculative, and a reasonable statutory cap makes sense. Governor Romney also believes we need a statutory prohibition on outrageous punitive damage awards.
 More disclosure will help clients make informed decisions, and it will help end abusive lawsuits and extortionate settlement demands by plaintiffs' lawyers.
 Despite passing numerous tort reforms, South Carolina still bears the burden of frivolous lawsuits and excessive damages because costs are passed across industries and states.