 – On the fourth day of Senator John Edwards' "Fighting for One America" tour, Edwards called for a major expansion of children's health insurance as an immediate step toward universal health care. Edwards also unveiled his Iowa Children and Youth Cabinet, a wide-ranging group of Iowans with first hand knowledge of the issues facing young people today. The group consists of 31 children's advocates, community leaders, teachers and parents from across the state who will advise Edwards and his campaign on children's policy.
Both houses of Congress have passed bills to expand the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to cover an additional four to five million children. There are currently nine million children in America without health insurance—51,000 of whom live in Iowa — yet President Bush has threatened to veto the expansion. Edwards, who was the first presidential candidate to propose a truly universal health care plan, is urging Republicans in Congress to stand with Democrats and override that veto if necessary, and put the health of America's children ahead of insurance company profits.
"George Bush cites philosophical concerns about expanding children's health insurance," Edwards said. "In reality, his philosophy is denying nine million kids health insurance. While we cannot be satisfied until every man, woman and child in America is covered by a truly universal health care plan, this bill is a step in the right direction and is action that can be taken today. I hope for the sake of our children that George Bush stops siding with insurance companies over kids and withdraws his threat to veto the expansion of health care for kids. And if he does veto kids' health care, I hope every member of Congress – Republican, Democrat or Independent – will stand up for our children and override the veto. Our kids deserve nothing less."
Expanding SCHIP is one of the cornerstones of Edwards' plan to cover every single man, woman and child in America. Under the Edwards health care plan, every American will enjoy true universal coverage, the choice of a public plan, reduced costs, and higher-quality health care.
Edwards is leading the issues debate and providing strong, substantive proposals that have shaped the discussion in the Democratic presidential campaign. The Iowa Cabinet on Children and Youth he named today consists of widely respected Iowa leaders, advocates for children, parents and teachers, and will help him continue to expand on his ideas for protecting and investing in the next generation of Americans.
A detailed fact sheet on Edwards' plan to expand children's health insurance and guarantee health care for all Americans is below.
The Edwards campaign has also launched a blog on its Iowa webpage featuring updates, photos, and video about the seven-day "Fighting for One America" bus tour. To follow along with the trip, Iowans are invited visit JohnEdwards.com/Iowa.
"George Bush says he has a 'philosophical' problem with expanding children's health insurance. With his philosophy, nearly 9 million kids lack health insurance. We need to put our children ahead of insurance company profits." – John Edwards
Almost 9 million American children lack health insurance – and 51,000 of them live in Iowa. Congress is now reconciling two different bills that would expand the successful State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to cover 4 to 5 million additional children from low-income families. Today, John Edwards called on George Bush to stop siding with insurance companies over kids and withdraw his threat to veto the expansion of health care for kids.
Medicaid and SCHIP play essential roles in helping low-income Americans get the health care they need.
John Edwards was the first presidential candidate to propose a detailed plan for true universal health care that offers every American the option of a public plan. Expanding SCHIP is one of the cornerstones of Edwards' plan to cover single American man, woman and child. As president, he will strengthen the federal partnership with states supporting these programs, committing the federal resources necessary to allow states to expand Medicaid and SCHIP to serve all adults under the poverty line and all children and parents under 250 percent of the poverty line (about $50,000 for a family of four).
Under the Edwards plan, Americans will enjoy: