 
 "During a speech at the Old Bedford Town Hall in New Hampshire today, Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced Twelve Commitments to the American people, a bold vision aimed at moving America forward through change and reform, overcoming new challenges and increasing accountability in Washington. … The Twelve Commitments: … 4. I will cut taxes and reform the tax code." (Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee, "Rudy Giuliani Unveils Twelve Commitments To The American People," Press Release, 6/12/07)
 
 The committee also outlined what it called a ‘menu' of Draconian and politically unpalatable measures -- including … increases in the sales tax and in property taxes for single-family homeowners … from which city officials could choose to achieve long-term budget balance. … But Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani rejected the panel's proposal for tax increases and reiterated his pledge to phase out several business taxes including the hotel tax and the commercial rent tax to spur the local economy." (Alan Finder, "Dinkins Panel Has Grim View Of Fiscal Gaps," The New York Times, 12/3/93)
 "Mayor-elect Rudolph Giuliani was too quick to reject new proposals to end the annual agony of closing New York City's budget gap. … Tax increases are only a fraction of the advisers' proposals, smaller than their recommendations for increased state aid to the city, and smaller still than the proposed spending cuts. But Mr. Giuliani campaigned on the comfortable promise of tax cuts. It would be hard for him to do the reverse at this time, but wise for him to examine his revenue needs and the possibility of delaying reductions until the budget is in better shape." (Editorial, "Budget Advice For The Mayor-Elect," The New York Times, 12/4/93)
 
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix II, p. II-10, II-16, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix V, p. V-3, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)