 – Today, as part of "America Belongs to Us Week," Senator John Edwards discussed our country's growing economic divide and his bold vision to restore the promise of the American Dream to hardworking Americans and their children. At a rally in Washington Square Park to support the striking Writers Guild members and Broadway stagehands, Edwards said he is the one candidate the American people can trust to shake up Washington, stand up to irresponsible corporations and their lobbyists and fight for one America where the dream of America is shared by all, not the chosen few who work on Wall Street.
"The problem of Two Americas is especially true here in New York City," said Edwards. "Investors lost $74 billion this year – but last week it was reported that Wall Street is paying out $38 billion in bonuses this year just the same. At the same time we learned of these record-high bonuses, a new report revealed that one in six New Yorkers goes hungry.
"It's no accident that the economy is working well for Wall Street. Our economy is designed to benefit the wealthy and the powerful because it was designed by the wealthy and the powerful. Last year, the securities and investment industry spent $61 million on lobbying. Since 1996, the number of Washington lobbyists has tripled to 36,000 – that's 60 lobbyists for every member of Congress.
"Putting the power in this country back on the side of middle-class families won't be easy. It's going to take a president who's willing to go to Washington and shake things up. Politicians in Washington have forgotten who they're fighting for. They shouldn't be fighting for Wall Street – they should be fighting for Main Street. When I'm president, we're going to take on Wall Street's excesses and make things right for hardworking American families. Because this is America, and everyone – no matter where they come from – deserves the chance to work hard, get ahead and live the American Dream."
To return the promise of the American Dream to millions of hard-working families, Edwards will: