 A serious look at Gov. Mike Huckabee's record and policy beyond the one-liners. As in:
 "And the ultimate thing is, I may not be the expert that some people are on foreign policy, but I did stay in a Holiday Inn Express last night." ("Imus In The Morning," 12/4/07)
 "In sum, conservatives should have worries about the depth and soundness of Mike Huckabee's foreign-policy views. And staying at a Holiday Inn Express is not going to be enough to allay them." (Editorial, "The Holiday Inn Express Candidate, 
, 12/10/07)
 
 (Editorial, "The Holiday Inn Express Candidate, 
, 12/10/07)
 GOV. MIKE HUCKABEE: "Well, let me begin by saying that to say that American foreign policy needs a change in tone or attitude, or an opening up and reaching out, is [as] obvious as saying that O.J. Simpson might've had a bad month. 
." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
. GOV. HUCKABEE: "There's a sense in which our situation with prestige in the world is a great deal like many of us experienced as a child growing up in a neighborhood where there was one kid, 
 You know the kid; I hope you weren't that kid." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "Normally we speak to Iran only indirectly, through the Swiss embassy in Tehran. Our recent direct negotiations about Iraq have been very narrowly focused, not very productive because we really weren't exploring the full range of issues. We have valuable incentives to offer Iran in exchange for helping us to stabilize Iraq, not supporting the Taliban, Hamas, and Hezbollah, and abandoning their nuclear ambitions, trade and economic assistance, 
, and security guarantees." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "And while there can be no rational dealings with al Qaeda, Iran is a nation-state looking for regional power. 
, and can skillfully and rightfully pursue. 
." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "We haven't had diplomatic relationships with Iran in almost 30 years, most of my entire adult life, and a lot of good it's done. 
. Well, the same is true for countries." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: " 
. Before we put boots on the ground in the future, we better have a few wingtips there first." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "As the only presidential candidate with a theology degree, along with several years of political experience, I know that theology is black and white. Politics is not. My enemy today on one issue may be my friend tomorrow on another. Bottom line is this: Iran is a regional threat to the balance of power in the Middle and Near East. Al Qaeda is an existential threat to the United States. 
." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "Now, while 
. When we let bin Laden escape at Tora Bora in December of 2001, he fled Afghanistan into Pakistan, and we played Brer Fox to his Brer Rabbit. We threw him into the perfect briar patch, protected directly by Islamic extremists, tribal leaders who revere him, and don't consider their land to be part of Pakistan, 
, who believes that it is." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "I am convinced that 
 or Iran is like dealing with the neighbor's house, which is on fire, while ignoring the house on the other side of the street that's filled with carbon monoxide. Iraq may be the hot war, but Pakistan is where the cold, calculating planning is actually going on. Al Qaeda in Iraq is a branch office. Corporate headquarters is in Pakistan." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "If al Qaeda attacks us tomorrow, that attacked will be postmarked Pakistan, not Iraq. Pakistan has become the new Afghanistan. Another attack will spark justified outrage that we let bin Laden and his people get away. Concerns about Pakistan's delicate sensibilities will be drowned out by the wailing about American casualties. 
." (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)
 (Gov. Mike Huckabee, Remarks To The Center For Strategic And International Studies, Washington, D.C., 9/28/07)