MANCHESTER, NH - As Senator Clinton attends "Moms and Daughters Making History" events in the Granite State today with her own mother Dorothy Rodham, and daughter, Chelsea Clinton, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign announced the names of over 3,500 Women for Hillary. With less than 20 days until the primary, the announcement is yet another sign of the momentum the Clinton campaign continues to build across the state.
"Hillary Clinton is the leader that America so desperately needs right now. She has promised to stop the war in Iraq, and I feel that she will be effective in finding solutions to the problems that face our great country, not the least of which is health care," said Patricia Cummings of Concord. "Hillary is the kind of person who will stand up for what she believes. These are just a few reasons I have chosen Hillary as my candidate for president of the United States."
As President, Senator Clinton will work to address the needs of families as they care for parents and children.
"I was proud to be a ‘working mom' and I'm now a proud ‘working daughter.' I'm grateful that my family could make the choices that were right for us. And that's what I want for all families: that same opportunity to make the choices that work for them."
Media interested in obtaining a complete list of all the Women for Hillary should contact the New Hampshire for Hillary press office at 
, or at (603) 782-4647.
Today, Hillary Clinton outlined her agenda to ease the burden on families that are struggling to balance caring for elderly parents, spouses and children, while meeting their job obligations. Maintaining this balance is a growing practical and financial struggle. Today's parents have 22 fewer hours to spend with their children. Two-thirds of working parents say they do not have enough time with their children. And with a growing elderly population, many of these working parents are finding themselves in the "sandwich generation," providing care not only as "working parents" but as "working children" for their own parents as well. Out-of-pocket costs for families with long-term caregiving responsibilities have skyrocketed to $5,531 per year - more than what most of these families spend on their own health care. Burdened with both long-term care and child care costs, many caregivers are dipping into their retirement savings or forgoing health care coverage for themselves.
Hillary Clinton understands the need to ease the burdens on these families. Americans are working harder for less pay and feeling increasingly overwhelmed as they struggle to balance work and family. With sound policies and sensible investments, Hillary will provide people more choices to make the decisions that are best for them. Hillary's plan for caregivers will offer: