 – On the final day of his "Fighting for America's Voice" tour, Senator John Edwards proposed an economic stimulus package to strengthen our economy and create new jobs. Edwards urged Congress to act immediately to pass at least a $25 billion jobs plan in early 2008 and be ready to pass $75 billion more if there is more evidence that we are entering a recession. Edwards believes that every American should have access to a good job and the chance to build a better life. To provide a much-needed boost to a weakening economy, Edwards' economic stimulus plan calls for investing in clean energy infrastructure, increasing federal aid to help states avoid cutting programs that help families through hard times, reforming unemployment insurance and tackling the housing crisis.
Today, Edwards will be joined on the tour by Doug Bishop who, in September 2004, was among the first wave of employees to be laid off at the Maytag plant in Newton, Iowa. Later that month, Doug and his family met Edwards as he was campaigning for the vice presidency on the Democratic ticket. After eight months out of work, Doug found another job and is back on his feet, but many other people in Newton haven't been so lucky – the Maytag plant is now closed for good. Edwards is running for president to make sure the voices of hard-working Americans like Doug get heard in Washington.
"Families across the country are working harder than ever, but in the last seven years, the typical family's income actually decreased – at the same time the costs of health care, energy, and housing are skyrocketing," said Edwards. "The truth is our economy is slowing under the weight of stagnant wages, a major housing crisis and a spike in energy costs. And now, leading economists are saying there's a substantial risk we could enter a recession.
"Hard-working families across America are already struggling to make ends meet. Before things get worse, I urge Congress to take action immediately to strengthen our economy and create new jobs. By taking action now, not only will we promote economic growth and shared prosperity in the long run, but these investments will create jobs and cushion the expected economic slowdown and will lay the foundation for a larger job creation package if we need it."
Edwards' "A Stronger Economy & Good Jobs" plan will:
For more information, please see the "A Stronger Economy & Good Jobs" policy paper included below.
Our economy is struggling under the weight of stagnant wages, a major housing crisis, and a spike in energy costs. The typical family's income fell $2,400 between 2000 and 2006 – as measured by the median income for working-age families – while the costs of health care, energy, and housing have skyrocketed. Now, more bad news for regular families: the economy is slowing, the job market is weakening, and there is a substantial risk of a recession, according to leading economists.
John Edwards believes that we cannot wait to turn this economy around. Today he called on Congress to pass at least a $25 billion jobs plan in early 2008 and be ready to pass $75 billion more if there are more signs of an economic recession. By accelerating investments that need to be made anyway, America can generate jobs to offset rising unemployment. The Edwards plan will invest in clean energy infrastructure, help states avoid cutting programs that fight poverty, reform unemployment insurance, and tackle the housing crisis. Together, these steps will make important investments in fighting global warming and poverty, provide a much-needed boost to a weak economy, and lay the groundwork for a larger jobs package if it proves necessary.
Today, John Edwards urged Congress to act as soon as possible in 2008 to pass at least $25 billion in new investments to create jobs and strengthen our economy. In addition, Congress should set aside $75 billion for additional investments in case the economy does enter a recession. His plan will strengthen our unemployment insurance system and make one-time investments in a new energy infrastructure, state aid and addressing the housing crisis. Acting now will accomplish three things: (1) make needed investments in fighting global warming and poverty, (2) create jobs and cushion the expected economic slowdown, and (3) lay the foundation for a larger job creation package if our economy slides into a recession, as some economists fear.