 – On the second day of the "Fighting for America's Voice" tour, Senator John Edwards delivered a speech outlining his bold and specific proposals to build a better future for our children so they can realize the American Dream. Speaking at the Des Moines Area Community College today, Edwards outlined his four-part "Building a Better World for Our Children" agenda, which calls for restoring the promise of America through good jobs, renewable energy, stronger schools, and investments in the American people. Edwards has spent his life speaking out on behalf of regular Americans and during "Fighting for America's Voice" tour he is highlighting his plans to reclaim our government from the powerful interests and ensure the voices of hard-working Americans get heard in Washington.
Today in Des Moines, Edwards was joined by Sandy and David Lakey, and their daughter Valerie. Valerie was five years old in 1993 when she was very badly hurt by the powerful drain suction at the bottom of a pool because of a faulty drain cover. The manufacturer of the defective part knew their product was dangerous and hid the truth. Edwards represented the Lakeys as their lawyer and ensured that Valerie's medical expenses would be taken care of for the rest of her life. Edwards was also joined in Des Moines today by James Lowe, the former coal miner who could barely speak for 50 years because he lacked health care to fix his cleft palate.
"Corporate greed and political calculation have taken over Washington," Edwards said. "For decades, big corporations and powerful interests have blocked change and progress. For decades, they have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and deployed hundreds of lobbyists to try and silence the voice of the American people. And for decades, our leaders in Washington have sat by and let it happen.
"An America where big corporations are favored over middle-class families is not the America I believe in," Edwards continued. "That's not the America I see over the horizon. I see an America rising – an America where middle-class families are thriving, where our children can rise higher than their parents, where they can achieve things that their parents never dreamed of. Where we don't just pass on a better world, but we also make sure that our children will have the tools they need to take advantage of that world. We need a president who will stand up to the powerful interests that have taken over our government, and fight to give the American people their voice back, so that we can build a better world for our children."
Edwards' "Building a Better World for Our Children" agenda calls for:
For further details on Edwards' plans to restore the promise of America, please see the "Building a Better World for Our Children" policy paper included below. Also included below are excerpts from Edwards' remarks.
Excerpts from Prepared Remarks

December 21, 2007
"But today, many middle class families are worrying that the next generation will have a harder life than they had. They worry that it will be harder to find a job because so many of the good ones have been shipped overseas. That college will be less affordable because the prices are going through the roof while their incomes stay the same. That health care may fall out of reach as the number of Americans without health insurance climbs every year. They worry that the American Dream is slowly slipping away from them.
...
"The problem is that our government is not looking out for middle-class families. Corporate greed and political calculation have taken over Washington. For decades, big corporations and powerful interests have blocked change and progress. For decades, they have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and deployed hundreds of lobbyists to try and silence the voice of the American people. And for decades, our leaders in Washington have sat by and let it happen.
...
"An America where big corporations are favored over middle-class families is not the America I believe in. That's not the America I see over the horizon. I see an America rising – an America where middle-class families are thriving, where our children can rise higher than their parents, where they can achieve things that their parents never dreamed of. Where we don't just pass on a better world, but we also make sure that our children will have the tools they need to take advantage of it."
"An America where big corporations are favored over middle-class families is not the America I believe in. That's not the America I see over the horizon. I see an America rising – an America where middle-class families are thriving, where our children can rise higher than their parents, where they can achieve things that their parents never dreamed of." — John Edwards
Today, many middle class families worry that their children will have a harder life than they had. They worry that, in an era of global competition, it will be harder to find a good-paying job with security, that college will be less affordable because the prices are going through the roof while their incomes stay the same and that health care may fall out of reach as the number of Americans without health insurance climbs every year. They worry that the American Dream is slowly slipping away from their families. The problem is that our government is not looking out for middle-class families today. Corporate greed and political calculation have taken over Washington. Twenty generations before us have done their part to pass a better America on to their children. The moral test of our generation, the one we face in this election, is will we do the same?
Today, John Edwards proposed bold and specific plans for how we can build a better America, with opportunity for our children, and make sure that we pass on a better world to our children by:
 Iowa has seen the results of unfair trade – losing more than 17,000 jobs in the last six years due to growing trading deficits with China. Trade deals need to make sense for American workers, not just corporations. The manufacturing jobs that have supported a generation of families are vanishing – and won't be there for our kids unless we turn things around. Edwards will reject NAFTA-style trade deals and make sure any new trade agreements include strong labor and environmental standards and will vigorously enforce American workers' rights in existing agreements. He will also expand trade adjustment assistance to do much more for the workers and communities that are hurt by global competition. [EPI, 2007]