"The Secretary is charged with a solemn responsibility: to ensure our nation's veterans receive the care and the benefits they deserve. Dr. Jim Peake has the skills and experience to carry out this mission. He is both the first physician and the first general to lead this department. Throughout his long career, Dr. Peake has worked to improve the way we deliver medical care to our troops. And thanks to his efforts, many who once might have died on the battlefield have returned home to live lives of hope and promise."
 In this position, he commanded 50,000 medical personnel and 187 army medical facilities worldwide with an operating budget of almost $5 billion.
 Notably, Dr. Peake served as Commanding General of the U.S. Army Medical Department Center and School - the largest medical training facility in the world, with over 30,000 students.
 His awards and decorations also include the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, the Legion of Merit with three oak leaf clusters, the Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, and an Air Medal. Dr. Peake wears the Combat Infantryman Badge.
 QTC serves veterans and separating soldiers by providing timely medical examination and electronic medical record services to help government agencies manage medical data and information in a cost-effective manner.
 While at Project HOPE, Dr. Peake helped to orchestrate the use of civilian volunteers aboard the Navy Hospital Ship Mercy as it responded to the tsunami in Indonesia and aboard the Hospital Ship Comfort as part of the Hurricane Katrina response.
 "He's been on both sides. He was a patient after he was wounded in Vietnam, and he spent much of his career as a caregiver." (Michael A. Fletcher and William Branigin, "Ex-Army Doctor, Vietnam Vet Nominated As VA Secretary," The Washington Post, 10/31/07)
 "He seems uniquely qualified to lead the department." ("Legion Pleased Peake Tapped to Lead Veterans Affairs," Press Release, 10/30/07)
 Gen. Peake "certainly has the prerequisite credentials and organizational skills to lead the second-largest federal department." ("VFW Hopes New Nominee is a Strong Veterans Advocate," Press Release, 10/30/07)
 "It is clear that the department needs someone with his credentials in medicine." (Editorial, "VA Nominee Boasts The Right Experience," The San Antonio [TX] Express-News, 11/6/07)
 "His bona fides are indisputable." (Editorial, "The Right Choice," The Orlando [FL] Sentinel, 11/5/07)
 "For the first time ever, a doctor and military general has been named to lead the Veterans Affairs." (Editorial, "Nominee Just Might Be The One We Need To Head The VA," The Chicago Sun-Times, 11/1/07)