 – Today, Senator John Edwards is kicking off a three-day "Fighting for America's Voice" tour by discussing his commitment to making sure the voices of rural Americans are heard in Washington. At an event in Council Bluffs, the campaign is also announcing a new effort to reach out to rural Iowans – a new rural DVD. The campaign will be showing thousands of rural Iowans the new DVD, "John Edwards: For the Country," that discusses Edwards' plan to revitalize rural America and his experiences growing up in his small, rural hometown of Robbins, North Carolina. The DVD includes interviews with Edwards' parents, Bobbie and Wallace Edwards. Additionally, the campaign is launching a new rural website, 
, that Iowans can visit to learn more about Edwards' plan to restore hope to rural America.
"Rural America has been ignored for too long," said Edwards. "I grew up in a small, rural town and I know firsthand the challenges facing America's rural communities. It's time we had a president who will speak out for rural Americans. As president, I will help small towns and rural communities create and keep new businesses, and make sure rural Americans have access to quality, affordable health care, good schools and the support systems they need."
The DVD is narrated by former Congressman and Dukes of Hazzard star Ben "Cooter" Jones and features interviews with rural strategist Dave "Mudcat" Saunders and music from Ralph Stanley II. Thousands of copies of the DVD will be distributed door-to-door and shown at community meetings with undecided caucus goers and rural Iowans. At the end of the video, viewers will have the chance to watch videos about Edwards' plans for guaranteeing universal health care, ending the war in Iraq and other key issues.
Edwards grew up in a small, rural town and is committed to making sure rural Americans have a voice in Washington. Edwards has visited all 99 Iowa counties, and has rural county chairs in every county. Last August, the campaign announced the support of more than 1,000 rural supporters. In April, Edwards became the first candidate to announce a plan to help Iowa's rural communities with his comprehensive "Rural Recovery Act," to restore economic fairness to rural America, create new jobs and businesses in rural communities, help struggling counties and towns and protect rural people and their way of life.
During the three-day "Fighting for America's Voice" tour across Iowa, Edwards will discuss his plans to stand up for America's workers, children and families – the very people who don't have a voice in Washington. Edwards has spent his life speaking out on behalf of hard-working Americans, and as president he will fight to make sure that the American people are heard in Washington, not the special interests.
During the tour, Edwards will be joined by numerous people whose voices he has fought to make sure are heard. Today, Edwards is joined by James Lowe, a former coal miner from Wise County, Virginia, who could barely speak for 50 years because he didn't have health care and couldn't afford the operation he needed to fix his cleft palate. Edwards met Lowe at the site of a Remote Area Medical (RAM) clinic during his "Road to One America" tour in July. It was at this free rural clinic, a year ago, that Lowe finally met with medical professionals willing to donate their time to perform the surgery he needed so he could finally speak.
Later in the tour, he will be joined by Sandy and David Lakey, and their daughter Valerie, whom Edwards represented as a lawyer after Valerie was injured as a result of a faulty swimming pool drain cover that the company knew was dangerous; and Doug Bishop, who worked at the Maytag plant in Newton until Maytag decided to cut costs by cutting Bishop's job.
To watch the video, please visit 
.
Too often, the problems of rural America are forgotten by politicians living and working in far-off capital cities and undermined by corporate greed. Many rural areas are struggling: rural families earn 27 percent less than other families and 244 of the poorest 250 counties are rural. Rural manufacturing has been hit particularly hard by international trade, the offshoring of jobs and automation. Struggling family farms are another challenge for small towns. As young people move away to find opportunity, rural communities are turning into ghost towns. Over the 1990s, Iowa lost one-third of its college graduates and ranked number two in out-migration of single, college-educated youth nationwide. [Carsey Institute, 2006; Davis, 2003; Census Bureau, 2003]
As a native of a small rural town, John Edwards knows that America cannot turn its back on rural areas. Small towns and rural areas are the keepers of American values like family, work, community, and freedom. America depends on rural communities for a strong manufacturing base, reliable and affordable food, and increasingly for clean energy as well. To make sure they share in our prosperity, we must fight corporate greed and turn the tables on runaway economic disparity. Today, Edwards outlined initiatives to restore economic fairness and create new jobs and businesses in rural America, help struggling counties and towns, and protect the rural people and their way of life.