 Last year, Peru's economy expanded by more than 7.5 percent, and over the past three years, trade between the U.S. and Peru has more than doubled to nearly $9 billion. Implementing the free trade agreement with Peru will expand this trade even more and create new opportunities for citizens in both nations. Congress needs to continue on this path by approving agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea.
 In May 2007, the Administration and Congress came together on a bipartisan approach to free trade agreements, under which enforceable labor and environmental provisions were included in pending free trade agreements. This is the approach applied to the agreement with Peru, and this agreement shows the American people that Congress and the Administration are working together and following a bipartisan way forward on trade.
 Both houses of the Colombian legislature have expressed overwhelming support for the trade agreement with the United States. Now they are waiting to see if we will hold up our end of the deal.
 Once implemented, this agreement will immediately eliminate tariffs on more than 80 percent of American exports of industrial and consumer goods, and it will provide significant new duty-free access for American agricultural commodities.
 
 In recent years, Colombia's democratically elected president has taken courageous steps to stop drug traffickers, rein in paramilitary groups, and enforce the law. Since 2000, kidnappings, terrorist attacks, and murders in Colombia have all dropped substantially, while convictions have increased and Colombia has extradited hundreds of drug traffickers and terrorists for prosecution in the United States.
 Panama has one of the fastest-growing economies in Central America, with a growth rate of more than eight percent last year.
 It will provide significant new duty-free access for American farmers and ranchers, and create opportunities for American businesses to participate in the Panama Canal expansion project. It will also provide new market access for U.S. service suppliers, including in Panama's key financial services sector.
 This agreement will create jobs and opportunities on both sides of the Pacific, and would strengthen our relationship with a democratic ally in a critical part of the world. The President urges Congress to act quickly to approve this agreement.
 SouthKorea is the 11th largest economy in the world, with an annual GDP of nearly $1 trillion. The KORUS FTA will open a growing market of 49 million consumers to the full range of U.S. goods and services, from autos to telecommunications services. The U.S. International Trade Commission estimates the reduction of Korean tariffs on goods alone would add $10-12 billion to annual U.S. GDP.
 A successful conclusion to the Doha Round would open up markets for American goods, crops, and services. The Doha Round also represents an historic opportunity to help millions of people climb out of poverty and despair.
 Opening markets has helped expand democracy, strengthen the rule of law, and lift hundreds of millions out of poverty. Open markets also contribute to America's prosperity – exports now account for a larger percentage of our GDP than at any other time in our history, which means that trade is a key driver of our economic growth. Exports also support higher-paying jobs for our workers. Over the 12 months ending in October, U.S. exports increased more than 13 percent.