 – On the fifth day of his Main Street Express bus tour across Iowa, Senator John Edwards will unveil new proposals to address the challenges of today's economy that are hitting young Americans just as they try to start their lives and begin families. Edwards believes our government should help hard-working families get ahead, instead of looking out for special interests. At events in Manchester and Elkader today, Edwards will discuss his Young Families Rising agenda that will protect young adults from debt and help them save, assist young families in balancing their jobs and home life, guarantee true universal health care and create more good jobs.
"My grandparents and parents worked in the mills because they wanted their children to have a better life," said Edwards. "That's the great promise of America – that if you work hard, and you're responsible, you can make certain that your children have a better life. But young adults are struggling to gain a foothold in today's economy. This generation is the first to start their adult lives in a nation where wages are stagnant, benefits are disappearing, college and credit-card debts are larger than ever, and the cost of middle-class necessities like affordable housing, health coverage and child care keep going up.
"Young mothers face additional challenges," Edwards continued. "Two-thirds of mothers now work – most of them full time – but our workplace practices and public policies don't reflect this change. It's time we offered universal preschool and expanded affordable child care. We must also extend the Family and Medical Leave Act so that working parents don't have to choose between taking care of a sick child and losing their jobs. And we need to make sure every American has access to quality health care and a good-paying job. As president, I will fight to make sure young families can succeed and build a better life for their children."
To address the challenges of today's economy that impact the lives of young families, Edwards will introduce a four-part Young Families Rising agenda. Edwards' agenda calls for:
 Edwards will make college more affordable, reign in credit card and other abusive debt, offer a new "Get Ahead" tax credit for savings, create universal retirement accounts that move from job to job, and support young homebuyers with a tough new national law to prevent lending abuses.
 Edwards will support young families by offering universal preschool and expanding affordable child care. He will expand job protection under the Family Medical Leave Act, and offer paid leave, including paid sick days, to all workers.
 Under Edwards' plan, employers will have to help cover their employees and the government will make insurance affordable with new reforms and subsidies, including the option of a public plan that could evolve to a single-payer system. Edwards will also deliver better care at a lower cost by cutting needless waste in the health care system.
 Edwards will invest in the industries of the future and create economic fairness for independent workers. He will also strengthen workers' right to organize and build career ladders, helping low-wage workers to train on the job, gain new skills, and move into better jobs.
Edwards has spent his career fighting for regular families like the ones he grew up with in his small, rural hometown. During the eight-day Main Street Express tour, Edwards is highlighting his plans to stand up to the special interests on Wall Street and help hard-working families on Main Street. Joined by award-winning actor Kevin Bacon, Edwards will visit Dubuque, Cedar Falls and Mason City on Saturday, and on Sunday, Bacon will join Edwards at a community meeting in Ames. Edwards will also hold events in Colfax and Ottumwa on Sunday.
More information on the Main Street Express can be found at 
. For further details on Edwards' plan to address the challenges facing young Americans, please see his Young Families Rising agenda included below.
"The greatness of America is the promise that every generation will give children the chance to rise higher, dream bigger, live greater. But today's young adults are the first to come of age during the middle class squeeze, facing high levels of debt, stagnant wages, and rising costs of things like health care and energy. I am fighting to make sure every family has the same chance to get started in life and build a better future" – John Edwards
Today's young adults are struggling to gain a foothold in an increasingly slippery economy. Over the course of the 20th century, America built the strongest middle class in history due to a basic bargain that delivered to millions of workers job security, upward mobility, and critical benefits like health coverage and a secure retirement. But globalization, technology and demographic changes have transformed our economy in challenging ways, while Washington puts narrow interests ahead of the middle class. This generation is the first to start their adult lives in a nation where wages are stagnant, benefits are disappearing, college and credit-card debts are larger than ever, and the cost of middle-class necessities like affordable housing, health coverage and child care keep going up.
America's challenge today is to help young families pass on a better life to the next generation. Today, John Edwards announced his four-part Young Families Rising agenda: (1) helping young adults out of debt and start saving, (2) helping young families balancing their jobs and home life, (3) guaranteeing true universal health care, and (4) creating more good jobs.
The Edwards agenda will address the challenges of today's economy that are hitting young Americans just as they try to start their lives and begin families: