 – Mayor Rudy Giuliani (WABC Radio's "Live From City Hall...With Rudy Giuliani," 9/7/01)
To watch Mayor Giuliani's comments on tolerating illegals, click here:


 MAYOR GIULIANI "People are frustrated over immigration because the government has been talking about solving this for twenty or twenty-five years, and it's just gotten worse. What we need here is leadership." (Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee, "Rudy Giuliani Campaign Launches New Television Ad in New Hampshire," Press Release, 12/13/07)


 GIULIANI: " 
 and this shouldn't surprise you because I've been the Mayor for a long time and outspoken on this issue, even nationally, 
. I think New York City should not deal with undocumented immigrants in a harsh way, I think they make a big contribution to the life of the city and were much better off being sensible and practical about it. 
." (WABC Radio's "Live From City Hall...With Rudy Giuliani," 9/7/01, 
)


 "[Mr. Giuliani said,] 'If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get out from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really unfair.'" (Deborah Sontag, "New York Officials Welcome Immigrants, Legal Or Illegal," 
, 6/10/94)


 "New York became a sanctuary city, where illegal immigrants enjoy some measure of protection, through an executive order signed by Mayor Ed Koch in 1989, five years before Giuliani became mayor in January 1994. But if Giuliani inherited the policy, he reissued it and seemed to embrace it." (Jake Tapper and Ron Claiborne, "Romney: Giuliani's NYC 'Sanctuary' For Illegal Immigrants," ABC News, 8/8/07)
 "Mayor Giuliani is actually suing the federal government to be relieved of the requirement that city workers turn over information about illegal immigrants to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. At City University, undocumented aliens qualify for the low resident tuition if they've lived here for a year. And just last week, the mayor announced that immigrants applying for marriage licenses couldn't be turned away even if their visas had expired." (Editorial, "Not All Immigrants Are Equal," [New York] 
, 3/23/97)
- 
 "But at the same time, federal immigration laws must be enforced strictly. For no nation can allow its borders to be violated with impunity. And state and local governments must help. In New York, that means making the adjective 'illegal' mean something when it appears before the word 'immigrant.' ... In other words, legal or illegal, the law makes no distinction. Then what's the law for?" (Editorial, "Not All Immigrants Are Equal," [New York] 
, 3/23/97)