Hillary Clinton today reinforced her support for a set of policy initiatives that would strengthen family farms and rural communities. The announcement coincides with the a multi-city tour that began on Wednesday by New York state farmers and rural development advocates throughout Iowa to discuss Hillary Clinton's impressive record on issues important to farmers and their families. The New York delegation is expected to tour over 30 communities in the state and meet with their Iowa counterparts throughout the week. In related news, Hillary Clinton voted today to support the Dorgan-Grassley Amendment, which would have limited commodity payments to $250,000 per household. The amendment did not pass.
"I understand the challenges that farmers and their families face in Iowa. But I also know that with the right policies in place, our nation's farms can thrive and can help America solve pressing problems, like providing a safe and healthy food supply, producing renewable energy, and creating vibrant rural communities and jobs," said Clinton. "That is why I have made a strong commitment to supporting family farms. Today, I was proud to stand up for family farms by voting to limit commodity payments to $250,000 and was disappointed that it did not pass. As President, I will continue to promote an agenda that will help small farmers remain competitive in the face of a growing threat by corporate agriculture."
Hillary supports targeting our commodity payment programs so that family farms - not corporate farms - are the key beneficiaries. She has worked to close loopholes that disproportionately benefit wealthy corporate farmers and those who do not directly take part in the operations or management of their farms by eliminating the triple-entity rule, implementing direct attribution of payments. In addition, she believes that we should retain a strong safety net for producers; invest in ethanol and other biofuels; expand access to nutritious food for children; dedicate new resources to conservation; devote new funding to rural development programs that can create jobs and strengthen rural economies; and implement mandatory country of origin labeling.
"Hillary understands the importance of agriculture to our community, our culture, and our economy. She has been an effective advocate for rural Upstate New York and will continue working to preserve America's proud tradition of family farming as President of the United States," said Jim Schaben, Jr. of Dunlap, co-owner of the Dunlap Livestock Auction.
The Clinton campaign's tour of New York farmers and rural development advocates includes farmers like Maureen Torrey from Rochester, NY. Maureen is president of United Fresh Produce and grows specialty vegetable crops. The group also includes Tom Ferraro, a Republican who now supports Hillary. He helped create Foodlink, an urban/rural markets program, selling fresh local rural products in upstate New York cities. They are expected to visit the following communities: Adair, Albia, Ames, Anthon, Atlantic, Bedford, Bloomfield, Burlington, Carroll, Chariton, Council Bluffs, Creston, Denison, Des Moines, Dunlap, Earlham, Fairfield, Fort Dodge, Fort Madison, Ida Grove, Iowa City, Le Claire, Mason City, Mount Ayr, Osceola, Shenandoah, Sioux City, Walnut, Washington, Webster City, and Winterset.
"Hillary Clinton knows and understands the needs of farmers and small communities," said Ferraro. "I know her record in upstate New York and trust her to be our next President so that our farmers have an advocate in the White House."
In the Senate, Hillary has made a strong commitment to supporting family farms. She has consistently promoted legislation and initiatives that will help small farmers remain competitive in the face of a growing threat by corporate agriculture and vertical integration that/to dominate agricultural markets. She has also promoted efforts to help farmers get healthy, fresh food directly into the hands of consumers.
Hillary sees the problem of global warming as an opportunity for rural America. She strongly supports efforts to expand the use of biofuels and local ownership of renewable energy production and recognizes that by doing so, we will create more job opportunities for skilled workers. She sees this as a win-win for our rural communities, our nation, and the world.
Hillary has been a champion for rural development since she came to the Senate. The first package of legislation she introduced after she was elected was developed to stimulate job growth and economic development in upstate New York. Seven years later, Hillary has successfully passed legislation to support regional skills alliances, which provide job training in rural communities; additional investments in entrepreneurs in rural communities made a national commitment to growing broadband nationwide; and introduced comprehensive legislation to promote economic development in rural America. She has also made it a priority to support initiatives to improve the health care, education, and infrastructure of rural America.