 
 -- When asked on Fox News Sunday about the destruction of the CIA tapes, Mike Huckabee responded that "[i]f we're covering somebody's rear end, we need to expose their rear end and kick their rear end..." Mike Huckabee is singing a very different tune now that he's running for President, because as Governor of Arkansas he destroyed 83 hard drives and four servers before leaving office. According to the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, back-up copies of all deleted information were given to Huckabee's then-chief of staff, but to this day have never been released.
• "So when we start destroying documents, what are we destroying them for? Are we doing it for security purposes or to cover somebody's rear end? If we're covering somebody's rear end, we need to expose their rear end and kick their rear end for doing something that's against the best interest of the United States and the responsibility and the respectability of this country."
• "At the instruction of Huckabee chief of staff Brenda Turner, the state Department of Information Systems crushed hard drives for 83 computers and destroyed four servers after some information was downloaded onto backup tapes. The computers were located in the 
, the 
, 
 and the 
 the governor traveled on." (Jon Gambrell, "Ethics Commission Dismis ses Complaint Against Huckabee," 
, 3/16/07)
• "The former governor spent the remaining $13,000 in the governor's emergency fund to destroy the computer equipment before he left office Jan. 9." (Jon Gambrell, "Ethics Commission Dismisses Complaint Against Huckabee," 
, 3/16/07)
 (Andrew DeMillo, "Beebe Says Crushing Of Hard Drives By Predecessor 'Unusual,'" 
, 1/20/07)
 "Department of Information Systems Director Claire Bailey said hard drives for 83 computers and four servers were destroyed, or 'crushed,' after information was downloaded onto backup tapes. Underwood supervised it and delivered the backup tapes to Huckabee Chief of Staff Brenda Turner, who had ordered the hard drives crushed, Bailey said." (Seth Blomeley and Michael Wickline, "Huckabee Left Computers, Fund Gutted," 
, 1/19/07)