Today in Winterset, Iowa, Hillary Clinton outlined her long-term care agenda to ensure that seniors and people with disabilities can get the high-quality care they need to live with security and dignity. Clinton's plan includes a $3,000 caregiving tax credit, a doubling of the elderly standard deduction and a long-term care insurance tax credit so that millions of seniors and their families can afford care. She would also end insurance discrimination and focus on the quality of care, tripling the funding for nursing home ombudsmen, creating a national system of background checks for long-term care workers and requiring disclosure of poor-performing nursing homes.
"Our seniors are caught between the soaring costs of care, the desire not to be a burden to their families, and the fear of hurting themselves or others because they are living without the care they need," Clinton said. "It's time for a new beginning - and a new approach to helping Americans grow old with dignity. Our seniors deserve our love, our respect, and our care."
The group most likely to need long-term care - those 85 and older - will grow from 5 million in 2006 to 21 million by 2050, creating a sandwich generation of Americans who are caring for their parents and their children. In Iowa, over 15 percent of the population is 65 or older, and the state ranks second among the states for population above 85. The average out-of-pocket costs facing family caregivers is $5,500 a year, more than most spend on their own health care and entertainment combined. To meet this challenge and support seniors and the army of unpaid caregivers that support them, Clinton's plan provides more choices, greater access, and higher quality.
 "Senator Clinton's long-term care initiative is both innovative and responsive to the undeniable burdens chronically ill and disabled Americans of all ages and their families face. By focusing on patients, their family caregivers and the need to train and expand a high quality workforce, she's prescribing a thoughtful solution to a problem that has gone unaddressed for far too long. We commend the Senator for putting it on the table and hope all other candidates will follow her lead."
 "Senator Hillary Clinton is to be commended for offering a bold long-term home care initiative which will help millions of infirm seniors and disabled persons preserve their health, independence and freedom. For too long there has been little help for infirm seniors and disabled persons who suffer from complex medical problems. Her proposal addresses the problems they face every day. It should be obvious to everyone that this is but a harbinger of the great things she will achieve on behalf of the most vulnerable Americans."
 "I applaud Senator Clinton for highlighting the important issue of long-term care during the Presidential campaign. This is an issue that voters overwhelmingly care about and one which deserves serious national dialogue. Family caregivers are the cornerstone of long-term care in our country and greatly need financial assistance to continue providing care. Senator Clinton's proposal to improve the workforce by offering new resources to states to design and implement initiatives aimed at attracting new individuals into the long-term care field and improving their training and performance is essential to ensuring that our country has an adequate workforce that can accommodate the needs of our nation's growing senior population."
 Ninety percent of all long-term care received is informal, primarily provided by spouses and adult children. Overall, as many as 52 million Americans are informal, un-paid caregivers. Many are in the so-called sandwich generation, playing dual caregiving roles as "working parents" and "working children" for their own parents as well. According to a new study by the National Alliance of Caregiving, the 
 That is more than 10 percent of a typical caregiver's salary and more than what most Americans spend in a year on their own health care and entertainment combined. Many caregivers meet this financial burden by dipping into their retirement savings or forgoing their own personal health care.
To ease this financial burden, Hillary is proposing a new $3000 Caregiving Tax Credit. This new partially refundable tax credit will be available to any person with substantial long-term care needs or to their caregivers (the credit would be phased out for couples earning more than $150,000). The credit will not require a complex accounting of out-of-pocket costs, but instead would be available directly to any individuals with substantial long-term care needs or their caregivers. The credit will offer generous assistance to more than 3 million seniors and their families, and also to more than a million families with children and young adults with long-term care needs.
In addition, Hillary will invest more than $300 million per year in stepped-up state support for unpaid family caregivers. Providing temporary relief for these caregivers helps keep families together and healthy while also saving money that would otherwise be spent on institutionalized long-term care services. As President, Hillary will ensure that caregivers have support by fully funding the Lifespan Respite Caregiver Act at about $60 million per year ($300 million over 5 years), and doubling funding for the National Family Caregiver Support Program to $250 million per year.
 Our current long-term care system is biased towards institutional care, even though many seniors would prefer the opportunity to remain independent and stay in their own homes and communities for as long as they are able. To address this problem, Hillary will:
 To help offset the growing financial burden of long-term care—as well as prescription drugs and other health needs—Hillary will provide additional tax benefits to the elderly. She will double the additional standard deduction available to elderly taxpayers, which would provide tax benefits to at least 11 million seniors.
/p>
Our long-term care infrastructure affects not only those with long-term care needs, but all Americans who wish to plan ahead for such an eventuality. For some, long-term care insurance can play an important role in safeguarding their future health, well-being, and financial security. But Hillary believes we need to do more to ensure that long-term care insurance provides real security and support, not false hope that falls short when seniors need it most. This issue is particularly important in Iowa, which has the 4th largest market penetration in long-term care insurance, with as many as 124,000 Iowans holding current policies. Therefore, as President, Hillary will take aggressive steps to increase consumer protections for long-term care insurance policies, alongside efforts to increase the affordability and access to high-quality long-term care insurance, by:
Requiring strong new consumer protections for long-term care insurance: When long-term care insurance is revealed as a false promise, it hits seniors at their most vulnerable moments, threatening health crises and financial devastation for entire families. It also increases costs for taxpayers, as the burden is shifted onto Medicaid, which already devotes 40 percent of its spending to long-term care. And it threatens to destabilize nursing homes and hospitals that rely on the stability of revenue from their patients to engage in long-term planning. As President, Hillary will require that all long-term care insurance companies that receive federal tax preferences abide by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) 2006 Model Regulations, including a requirement that insurers offer nonforfeiture benefits and inflation protection. She will also outlaw discrimination based on pre-existing conditions in long-term care insurance policies. Hillary will also:
 Hillary will give all American access to same type of long-term care insurance options that federal employees currently have. This approach will increase choice and offer more secure and affordable options for those who are interested in purchasing long-term care insurance. Plans offered through this option would include a robust set of consumer protections similar to those offered through the existing federal plan. They would also be affordable. The Government Accountability Office recently found that the federal program offered annual premiums that were 46 percent lower for single people and 19 percent lower for married couples than five major private insurance suppliers.
 Once she has secured strong new consumer protections in the long-term care insurance market, Hillary will offer a new tax credit to help those planning for retirement be able to afford high-quality insurance policies that are right for them. This new tax credit will cover 75 percent of long-term care insurance premiums up to $1500 per year for qualified long-term care insurance policies that would meet the new consumer protection requirements (the credit would be phased out for couples earning more than $150,000). The credit will reward middle-class families who take steps to prepare for their long-term care needs, and put qualified insurance in reach for many middle-class families.
Protecting our Seniors By Improving the Quality of Our Nursing Homes
While the majority of the nation's nursing homes provide quality care to their residents, when persistent quality violations go unaddressed and when our seniors are subjected to unconscionable neglect, it erodes confidence in the system and makes it more difficult for all operators to function effectively. And sadly, the problem of poor nursing home quality extends far beyond the list of 54 under-performing nursing homes that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has recently released. In 2006, nearly one in every five nursing homes that received federal funds was cited for serious deficiencies in care. And from 2000-2005, nearly half of the 63 nursing homes that regulators had identified as having an established history of serious medical deficiencies continued to repeatedly fail federal requirements and still receive federal funds.
These severe, and often long-standing, quality violations are more than a regulatory problem. They offend our solemn commitment to ensure that seniors live in dignity and security. Our seniors deserve better. That is why Hillary will take aggressive steps to improve quality in our nation's long-term care facilities by:
 The total cost of Hillary Clinton's long-term care agenda is approximately $5 billion per year. Hillary will finance this cost without increasing the deficit by dedicating the revenue from closing two ineffective provisions in our tax code. First, Hillary will close the loophole that allows hedge fund managers to use offshore tax havens to defer paying taxes on their compensation. Second, Hillary will repeal the provision in the 2004 JOBS Act which allows U.S. Corporations to gain tax benefits from their foreign assets by allocating interest on a worldwide basis. (Enacted in 2004, this provision has yet to take effect.)