 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Our country faces unprecedented challenges. We can rise to these challenges through conservative change in Washington. With a record of success and exceptional leadership, Governor Romney has outlined detailed conservative solutions for strengthening America.
 Americans are concerned about the overspending in Washington. Like the millions of families and businesses across the country, government should also live within a budget. Governor Romney has outlined the conservative solutions necessary to meet this challenge by:
 He will veto any non-defense appropriations bill that grows spending at a rate greater than inflation minus one percent (CPI-1%). This will save $300 billion over 10 years.
 Restoring this power to the President would allow us to make tremendous strides in eliminating earmarks and cutting inefficient programs.
 Governor Romney's administration will undertake an exhaustive review of each individual federal program to eliminate and consolidate programs that are no longer useful or are bureaucratic and unwieldy.
 The amount of money Congress tells the President to spend should be a spending ceiling, not a final price tag.
 Making it even harder to attempt to increase taxes will help impose the fiscal discipline we need to stop overspending.


 By 2050, total entitlement spending by the government will reach nearly 20% of America's GDP. This reality demands action now. Governor Romney has outlined the conservative solutions necessary to meet this crisis by:
 In a forthright and bipartisan manner, Governor Romney will work with Congress to find a bipartisan way to reform Social Security while opposing higher Social Security taxes.
 To rein in Medicare costs, Governor Romney believes we need to fundamentally reform our health care system through free-market reforms. Meeting the Medicare challenge is going to require Republicans and Democrats becoming very serious about this issue and finding a bipartisan way to reform this entitlement program.
 Governor Romney will encourage innovation in Medicaid by block-granting federal funds to states and removing the burdensome administrative requirements that prevent them from improving the program and containing costs.
 Lower taxes are the key to ensuring continued economic growth and job creation. However, our economy is threatened by looming tax hikes. Governor Romney has outlined the conservative solutions necessary to meet this challenge by:
 Making the Bush Tax Cuts permanent is the first step to ensuring that Americans are able to keep more of their hard-earned money.
 As President, Governor Romney will cut marginal tax rates across the board, allowing all Americans to save more money.

  
 Governor Romney's plan will allow middle class Americans to save tax free by changing the tax rate on interest, capital gains and dividends to absolutely 0%.
 It is unfair to tax the American people three times: once when they earn their money; second when they invest it and receive income from those investments; and third when they die.
 The United States has the second highest corporate tax rate in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. We cannot afford to have a tax rate that is out of alignment with the other major economies of the world.
 At the very least, Congress must pass a patch to the AMT that will prevent this tax from affecting more and more families in America.
 Governor Romney will work to ensure that America's economy, businesses and workers have the tools they need to compete against foreign competitors. Governor Romney has outlined the conservative solutions necessary to meet this challenge by:
 Governor Romney will seek to bring together nations committed to open markets and playing by the rules in the largest ever Free Trade Area, and go beyond traditional trade to promote high standards in areas critical to U.S. competitiveness.
 The Doha Round and free trade agreements can be huge opportunities for America if we ensure no unilateral disarmament on agriculture and demand strong benefits for U.S. farmers and goods and services producers.
 Governor Romney's vision for expanding trade includes stronger enforcement efforts, multilateral efforts to stop currency manipulation, action against intellectual property rights theft, negotiations to open markets for services, and building food, safety and other standards to protect Americans.
 We cannot afford to fall behind as China and others cut deals that hurt American exports and jobs.
 These self-managed accounts will give workers the opportunity to take control of their own futures by getting the training and education they need to succeed in the new economy.
 Governor Romney will initiate an audit of all existing worker training and educational programs to ensure that workers are being helped most efficiently, while eliminating duplicative spending and minimizing bureaucratic overhead.
 America cannot afford to have the second highest corporate tax rate in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
 As President, Governor Romney will eliminate cumbersome and unnecessary regulations and bureaucracies that hinder economic growth and job creation. One of these regulations that must be pruned is Sarbanes-Oxley.
 Governor Romney believes we must enact common sense tort reform at the federal level to make the system fairer and more predictable for both companies and the general public.
 As President, Governor Romney will emphasize math and science education, while promoting innovative approaches such as charter schools and public-private partnerships, to ensure that our workers have the intellectual capital and skills to compete in the 21st century economy.
 We must encourage legal immigration and streamline the system to recruit and retain high-skilled workers and welcome the best and the brightest from around the world to our universities.
 We need to invest in infrastructure projects critical to the national economy and the flow of goods and people, instead of funding home-district pork.
 Energy costs that put pressure on household finances are a major concern for families. With nearly 60 percent of our oil coming from abroad, we must become energy independent. Governor Romney has outlined the conservative solutions necessary to meet this challenge by:
 Because energy independence is crucial to our economy and national security, Governor Romney will make it a top administration priority to become energy independent.
 This investment will encourage the commercialization of alternative energy.
 Governor Romney will pursue our domestic sources of energy, drawing from our broad and diverse base of options, including opening ANWR.
 Governor Romney will shift federal priorities to emphasize issues of energy security, particularly at the Department of Energy.
 Governor Romney will accelerate the construction of new nuclear power plants in order to ensure that nuclear power continues to be a part of a robust, cleaner and more reliable energy mix.
 Governor Romney believes we must reform our immigration laws so that we can end illegal immigration. America will always welcome legal immigration, but as a nation we also insist on the rule of law. Governor Romney has outlined the solutions necessary to meet this challenge by:
 Governor Romney will follow through on the Congressional commitment to build a physical and technological fence along the border, and secure other points of entry throughout the country. He will also increase border control enforcement and resources.
 Governor Romney will issue a biometrically-enabled and tamper-proof card to non-citizens and create a national database so employers can easily verify the legal status of non-citizens in this country. Employers will be held accountable for hiring illegal immigrants.
 Governor Romney opposes amnesty or any special path to citizenship. He opposed each version of the McCain-Kennedy legislation as the wrong approach and a form of amnesty. Amnesty did not work 20 years ago, and it will not work today.
 Governor Romney will cut back federal funding to cities that are "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants and refuse to comply with federal law or aid federal law enforcement.
 Governor Romney will provide additional resources to enforce existing immigration laws throughout the nation. We cannot be serious about our immigration laws until we provide the resources needed to enforce them. Governor Romney supports the Administration's steps to strengthen the enforcement of our current immigration laws.
 Governor Romney will streamline the visa system to recruit and retain skilled workers in high demand by U.S. companies. He will also welcome the best and the brightest from around the world to our universities.