 "People are frustrated over immigration because the government has been talking about solving this for twenty or twenty-five years, and it's just gotten worse."
 "The Nation Cannot Control Its Borders And Congress Has Been Unable To Agree On How To Revamp Outmoded Immigration Policies." (Leon Daniel, "America's Borders Are Out Of Control: Congress Tackles Illegal Immigration," United Press International, 11/27/83)
 "The immigration bill, hotly debated for nearly six years, would legalize possibly millions of aliens already living in the United States and fine or jail employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. … Backers hailed the immigration legislation as the most comprehensive effort in decades to deal with the nation's mounting immigration problems." (P.L. 99-603, Signed 11/6/86; Christopher Drew, "Senate Sends Major Antidrug, Immigration Bills To Reagan," Chicago Tribune, 10/18/86)
 "The number of illegal aliens within the United States is in the range of 6 million …" (Bruce Fein, Op-Ed, "New Immigration Law Has Its Pitfalls," The San Diego Union-Tribune, 10/26/86)
 "Unfortunately, when you take the longer view, you can't help but conclude that what Congress has done in 1996 will be no more effective in solving this nation's immigration problems than the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 was." (Frank del Olmo, Op-Ed, "Perspective On Immigration," Los Angeles Times, 9/29/86; P.L. 104-208, Signed 9/30/96)
 (Michael Hoefer, Nancy Rytina, And Christopher Campbell, U.S. Department Of Homeland Security, Office Of Immigration Statistics, "Estimates Of The Unauthorized Immigrant Population Residing In The United States: January 2006," 8/07)
 (Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg Poll, 1,245 Registered Voters, Conducted 11/30-12/3/07, Margin Of Error +/- 3%)
 "What we need here is leadership."
 (Rudy Giuliani For President, Press Release, 8/14/07)
 "Real immigration reform must put security first because border security and homeland security are inseparable in the Terrorists' War on Us. The first responsibility of the federal government is to protect our citizens by controlling America's borders, while ending illegal immigration and identifying every non-citizen in our nation. We must restore integrity, accountability and the rule of law to our immigration system to regain the faith of the American people." (Rudy Giuliani For President, Press Release, 8/14/07)
 "Build a fence."
 Giuliani: "So everything else has to kind of serve that purpose. A fence — a physical fence — very effective. A technological fence, in certain places [will be] very, very effective; meaning, photographic technology, heat sensing technology, different kinds of technology, all toward the goal of identifying everyone coming in to the United States." (Rudy Giuliani, Interview With John Fleischman, 3/26/07)
 "Train the border patrol."
 (Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOC Radio, Davenport, IA, 6/4/07)
 "Have a BorderStat system."
 BorderStat is modeled after the Mayor's successful New York City program CompStat which helped reduce the city's crime by imposing accountability. It will use key indicators to identify both effective enforcement strategies that demonstrate tangible results and areas of the border where we are failing so the failures can be immediately corrected. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 12/11/07)
 "Have a tamper-proof ID card."
 Rudy will propose the Secure Authorized Foreign Entry Card (SAFE Card) to be uniform for all non-citizen workers and students, utilizing tamper-proof and biometric features for secure identification. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 12/11/07)
 "And then if you become a citizen you have to be able to read English, write English, speak English and understand American civics."
 Rudy believes immigration and Americanization go hand-in-hand. As President, he will propose that all immigrants who want to become citizens must truly read, write, and speak English and learn American civics. For the American experiment to succeed, we need a common language. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 12/11/07)
 "We can end illegal immigration. The technology exists to do it, the people exist to do it. Now we need the political leadership and will to get it done. I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
 (Sec. Michael Chertoff, Remarks At The Woodrow Wilson International Center For Scholars, Washington, D.C., 12/12/07)
 CNN's CHRISTINE ROMANS: "Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff opened a 28-mile stretch of border fence in Arizona today. But as Jeanne Meserve reports the fence is not made out of stone or concrete, instead, it's a virtual one." CNN's JEANNE MESERVE: "Telephoto cameras, motion detectors, thermal imaging devices, all perched on 98-foot tall towers, integrated to form a virtual fence along the border. The $20 million project along a stretch of the Arizona desert has been bedeviled by software problems, but now six months later than expected, the Department of Homeland Security is declaring it operational." SEC. CHERTOFF: "It's not the be all and end all at this point and it's not what it can be eventually, but we needed to get possession of it and we need it to operate in order to really develop the next stage of this." (CNN's "Lou Dobbs Tonight," 12/7/07)
 "Here is another example [of new technology on the border]: Distributed Instruments, Sterling Heights, Mich., has developed a surveillance sensor network powered by a chain of aerostats – or tethered balloons – to provide a broadband wireless network for sensor data and surveillance platforms for digital video. The sensors can be integrated with a chain of ground sensors that enable listening devices and other monitors." (Paul Rothman, "Opportunity At The Borders," Government Security, 6/1/06)
 (Niko Price, "AP Investigation: No Evidence Costly Effort To Shut Southwest Border To Terrorists Has Stopped A Single One," The Associated Press, 10/30/03)
 (Romesh Ratnesar, "The State Of Our Defense," Time, 2/24/03)
 "Datastrip's new DSVII-SC handheld biometric identification terminal takes identity verification out of the police station and onto the street, providing a wireless fingerprint capture and matching solution that can be used for mobile Automated Fingerprint Identification Systems (AFIS) and a variety of other in-the-field law enforcement applications. The device enables officers to quickly screen suspects against any fingerprint database at traffic stops and other field encounters without returning to headquarters. (Datastrip, "Datastrip's New DSVII-SC Handheld Device For Law Enforcement Enables Fast Mobile Fingerprint Capture And Matching," Press Release, 6/21/05)
 (Jennifer Rubin, "Be Prepared," The American Spectator Online, 9/7/07)
 King: "He would be constructing a 700 mile fence. A real fence. A technological fence. He would be going all out putting all the efforts in to combating illegal immigration which he did to combating to crime and welfare in New York where he dramatically turned that city around. I mean Bill you and I knew how bad the city was. There were over 2,000 murders. He reduced that by 2/3. Reduced the welfare by about 60% and he did it because he applied himself, he took politically incorrect decisions, he would do the same with illegal immigration." (Rep. Peter King, Bill Bennett's "Morning In America," 8/17/07)
 "Bonner says Giuliani 'is the only candidate who has articulated a plan and the only one with leadership skills to get it done.' He points, not surprisingly, to Giuliani's CompStat program for reducing crime in New York City and says Giuliani would take that plan 'for holding people accountable for crime and apply it to the border, which is an enforcement issue.' He says Giuliani sees enforcement of the borders as '100%, not 70% and not 80%' attainable." (Jennifer Rubin, "Border Guard Rudy," The American Spectator Online, 8/20/07)