 "There's no question. Taxes go down. Revenues go up."
 CNBC's LARRY KUDLOW: "The level of revenues, federal tax collection revenues is higher in 2006 than it was at the peak of the Clinton boom in 2000, and that's after multiple Bush tax cuts. Moreover, Art, even the level of personal income revenues and tax collections is higher. Now, does that or does that not support the Laffer Curve?" ART LAFFER: "Of course, it does … Bush's tax cuts clearly have worked and so did Reagan's, so did Kennedy's." (CNBC's "Kudlow & Company," 1/23/07)
 "Nor is the idea new that tax cuts can sometimes spur economic growth, resulting in more jobs for workers and higher earnings for business, leading to more tax revenue for the government. A highly regarded economist once observed that 'taxation may be so high as to defeat its object,' so that sometimes 'a reduction of taxation will run a better chance, than an increase, of balancing the Budget.' Who said that? Milton Friedman? Arthur Laffer? No. It was said in 1933 by John Maynard Keynes, a liberal icon. Lower tax rates have led to higher tax revenues many times, both before and since Keynes's statement — the Kennedy tax cuts in the 1960s, the Reagan tax cuts in the 1980s, and the recent Bush tax cuts that have led to record high tax revenues this April." (Thomas Sowell, Op-Ed, "Angry Left," National Review, 5/15/07)
 (Brian Riedl, "Taxing Myths," National Review, 4/17/07)
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix II, p. II-10, II-16, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix V, p. V-3, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)
 "'The budget that the City Council will adopt reduces spending by over $100 million from last year's budget and reduces City headcount by 15,000. This budget will eliminate the City portion of the hotel occupancy tax, as well as reduce the commercial rent tax,' said Mayor Giuliani. 'It is a testament to our collective willingness to employ creative strategies to downsize government and cut taxes.'" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Mayor Giuliani and Speaker Vallone Agree on FY '95 Budget," Press Release, 6/21/94).
 "The 1994 repeal of the hotel-occupancy tax, often plugged by Giuliani as exemplary (and carried out jointly with the administration of Gov. Mario Cuomo), is a prime example of the divide: Before December, 1994, hotel guests paying $100 and more for rooms in the city forked over 21.25 percent in state and city taxes, plus a $2-per-night city surcharge. Now the combined rate is 15.25 percent, plus the surcharge. Five percentage points of the cut was state tax, and one point of it, city tax." (Dan Janison, "Rudy's Record," Newsday, 5/25/97)
 (New York City Office Of The Comptroller, "Comprehensive Annual Financial Report Of The Comptroller For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003," p. 243)
 "He cut taxes 23 times by 9 billion."
 Giuliani: "We wanted to reduce taxes and be able to accomplish some of that with the Democratic City Council, overwhelmingly Democratic. We ended up reducing taxes … 23 times successfully …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOKQ Radio's Don Brian, Portsmouth, NH, 3/12/07)
 
 (City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1996; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1997; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1998; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 2002)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, pp. 8, 11)
 "Reduced welfare 640,000."
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet;)
 "Eliminated 20,000 bureaucrats."
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
 "And cut real per capita spending."
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3; Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, data.bls.gov, Accessed 5/3/07)
 Under Giuliani. (Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, data.bls.gov, Accessed 5/3/07)
 "All in a place where people said it was impossible."
 (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
 (Bruce Frankel and Keith Greenberg, "Giuliani Edges Dinkins In Bitter NYC Contest," USA Today, 11/3/93)
 (Russell Shorto, Op-Ed, "All Political Ideas Are Local," The New York Times, 10/2/05)
 George Will: "[T]he wisdom of New York was … that it was impossible to govern the city. … When I say that being Mayor of New York is demanding, I mean this. It has more people than do 39 other states. It is more difficult to govern than all 50 of the states. This for a reason — New York City has been liberalism's laboratory in the 20th century, which means it is a seriously troubled place, or was. It produced a culture of complaint, which led to the politics of victimhood, which led to government by grievance groups, and the learned dependency of an over-developed welfare state." (George Will, Remarks At CPAC, 3/2/07)
 "Now, Rudy Giuliani has a new plan. He'll cut taxes. Lower income taxes. Reduce business taxes. And do away with the marriage penalty and the death tax for good."
 "Amid fears of an economic slowdown, now is the time to cut taxes, not raise them. But the Democratic presidential candidates all seem determined to impose an unprecedented $3 trillion tax hike on the American people. Republicans have a clearer understanding of how our economy works. This summer, I unveiled my tax plan, which committed to making the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent, while aiming for still-lower marginal rates. We'll give the death tax the death penalty, index the Alternative Minimum Tax for inflation as a step toward eliminating it entirely, expand tax-free savings accounts, and expand health-care choice through tax reform. We also need to reduce the corporate tax rate — which is currently the second highest in the industrialized world, behind Japan — to at least the average of the other Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development nations, or 28%. These actions will protect American jobs, empowering us to compete and win in the global economy." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Op-Ed, "The Meaning of Fiscal Conservatism," The Wall Street Journal, 12/3/07)
 
 "We need accountability in the spending of our money so that people have confidence in government again."
 Giuliani: "We'll make it a FedStat program, and we will use it — we will use it to measure the effectiveness of what we're doing: measure the effectiveness of what we're doing at the border with the BorderStat program, measure the effectiveness of protecting America with the TerrorStat program, measure the effectiveness on our State Department, on our Defense Department, and all the agencies of government doing the thing what they're supposed to do, to make America's mission more effective in the world, to make America's military modern and able to deal with the — in a flexible way, with the challenges they have today. You get what you measure. If you don't have measurement standards, government's out of control." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks On His 12 Commitments To The American People, Bedford, NH, 6/12/07)
 "Now, this is what we should apply to the federal government, in order to satisfy the complaints and the criticisms of the people who say 'Washington doesn't accomplish anything.' The concept must be — and if I were president, this is the way I would do it, and we're going to begin organizing it now, because we began organizing what we were going to do in New York City 18 months before — we've got to look at each one of the functions of the federal government and impose business-like standards on it, CompStat standards on it." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "A GAPStat program can help us measure whether we're actually imposing fiscal discipline on the government. It's my promise that I would reduce the size of the federal employees. … 42 percent of them are retiring in the next 10 years. My objective would be to try to replace about half those positions. No one would lose their job, but the position wouldn't get filled. We would replace those positions with technology or with figuring out how people can be more productive. Well, you've got to track that. You have to have a GAPStat program to track that, and to track the out-of-control expenditures in each one of the agencies." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "Rudy will also rein in runaway federal spending."
 (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks On His 12 Commitments To The American People, Bedford, NH, 6/12/07)
 "We need to root out wasteful spending and fraud in benefit payments and contracts by convening a Government Waste Commission, such as the one that closed military bases. It can require Congress to vote up or down on a whole package of recommended cuts, beginning by considering the 3% of programs currently rated 'ineffective' by the federal government itself." (Rudy Giuliani, Op-Ed, "The Meaning Of Fiscal Conservatism," The Wall Street Journal, 12/3/07)
 Rudy's plan establishes a Government-wide Accountability Program ["GAPStat"] based on New York's successful CompStat program to better evaluate each agency, analyze the effectiveness of Federal programs, and identify those that are wasteful, failing or duplicative. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 "Do away with earmarks."
 (Rudy Giuliani, Op-Ed, "The Meaning Of Fiscal Conservatism," The Wall Street Journal, 12/3/07)
 (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 6/12/07)
 "Make agency heads find 5 to 10 percent savings in every budget."
 Requiring agency heads to identify savings and increased efficiencies in each annual budget – as Rudy Giuliani did as Mayor – is a management tool that will lead to constant streamlining and more cost-effective government spending without compromising national security in the search for savings. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani, Op-Ed, "The Meaning Of Fiscal Conservatism," The Wall Street Journal, 12/3/07)
 "And when nearly half of the federal work force retires over the next 8 years, he'll only replace half of them."
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Congressional Budget Office, "Characteristics and Pay of Federal Civilian Employees." 3/07)
 "Rudy Giuliani. He won't just talk about cutting taxes and reducing government. He'll deliver."
: "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
 "Paid for by the Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee, Incorporated. JoinRudy2008.com"
 (Richard Pérez-Peña, "Giuliani Is Sounding More Like A Candidate," The New York Times, 1/28/07)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Campaign Kicks Off 'Rudy Gets Results' In New York City's Times Square," Press Release, 10/15/07)
 "As the Washington spending juggernaut steams furiously ahead, Rudy Giuliani has offered to toss several monkey wrenches into its gears. Wednesday in Des Moines, Iowa, the Republican presidential frontrunner unveiled several attractive ideas to 'restore fiscal discipline and cut wasteful Washington spending.' … Why should anyone believe Giuliani ever would implement such clever plans? Well, he already has. As mayor of New York, Giuliani used similar reforms to reverse the city's decline and rejuvenate its finances." (Deroy Murdock, Op-Ed, "Rudy's Fiscal Roadmap," National Review, 6/22/07)
 "[Steve] Forbes concurs, saying that [Giuliani] 'demonstrated in New York, one of the most liberal big spending cities and largest cities, that he could do the right thing fiscally' by restraining spending and by reducing or cutting 23 taxes. Forbes believes that "we could use a dose in Washington D.C." of what Giuliani did in New York" (Jennifer Rubin, "Rudy's Financial Team," Human Events Online, 7/11/07)