 – Today, on the third day of his Main Street Express bus tour across Iowa, Senator John Edwards unveiled an agenda to support law enforcement officials and keep families safe in their communities. To build One America where everyone can get ahead, Edwards believes it is critical that our citizens feel secure in their communities. Today, Edwards also received the endorsement of 38 Iowa law enforcement leaders, building on the growing momentum of his campaign. These leaders believe Edwards is the best candidate to win the White House and make a real commitment to keeping our communities safe. Edwards' nine-point Keeping Our Communities Safe initiative includes proposals for putting more cops on the beat, providing resources to fight drug manufacturing and addiction, stopping the cycle of repeat offenses, helping at-risk youth and promoting gun safety while protecting gun rights.
"Crime in America is not an urban problem or a rural problem. It's an American problem," said Edwards. "We can't build One America – where every has an equal chance to succeed – until we address this problem so that every one of us is safe – day and night – in our own communities. That means supporting strong and fair law enforcement in every community.
"I am honored to have the support of these law enforcement leaders. These men and women are on the front lines – serving our communities, protecting the public, and keeping America safe. As president, I will stand up for them every single day. And I will work to make sure all Americans are safe and secure and able to live go as far as their hard work and talent will take them."
"John Edwards understand the importance of strengthening law enforcement so we can fight crime in American cities and towns, and help rural America deal with the devastating effects of meth abuse," said Lonny Pulkrabek, Johnson County Sheriff and Edwards endorser. "John Edwards is the best candidate to win the White House and bring big change to America. I know that he will fight everyday to make sure law enforcement officials have the resources they need to keep our communities safe."
The law enforcement leaders endorsing Edwards come from every part of the state and reflect Edwards' commitment to reaching out to Iowans in all 99 counties. Edwards is the only candidate to visit and take questions from caucus goers in every county in Iowa twice. Their endorsement comes as Edwards is gaining strength in Iowa. He was recently endorsed by Congressman Bruce Braley.
Edwards' nine-point plan for Keeping Our Communities Safe calls for:
Today marks day-three of Edwards' Main Street Express bus tour across Iowa. Edwards is scheduled to make stops in Iowa City, Grinnell and Des Monies today, and tomorrow he'll participate in the Des Moines Register Presidential Debate in Johnston, Iowa, followed with a community meeting in Indianola.
For further details, please see Edwards' Keeping Our Communities Safe policy paper included below.
Merle Sass, former Harrison County Sheriff

Stacey Oleson, Juvenile Court Liaison, Floyd County

Gerald Herburger, retired Policeman, Dubuque County

Dennis W. Anderson, Polk County Sheriff

Mark Pape, Jail Administrator, Jackson County

Duane Worthy, Jail Administrator, Des Moines County

Don Zeller, Linn County Sheriff

Dick Couffman, Jail Administrator, Keokuk County

Judson Frisk, Assistant County Attorney, Harrison County

Amy Campbell, Newton Parking Enforcement, Jasper County

Ron Wheeler, Clarke County Attorney

Ron George, Keokuk County Sheriff

Chad Roeder, Jailer, Jackson County

Anthony Jago, Iowa Department of Corrections, Page County

Steve MacDonald, Fremont County Sheriff

Randy Manning, Deputy Sheriff, Jackson County

Linn Hall, Iowa Department of Corrections 3rd District Director, Woodbury County

Allen Fry, Corydon Police Chief, Wayne County

Russ Long, Deputy Sheriff, Jackson County

Gary Benson, Urbana Police Chief, Benton County

Lonny Pulkrabek, Johnson County Sheriff

Dave Thompson, Benton County Attorney

Brendan Zeimet, Maquoketa Police Officer, Jackson County

Don Kirkendall, Wapello County Sheriff

David Helman, retired Federal Prison Warden, Henry County

Bernie Walther, Cedar Rapids Police Captain, Linn County

Gail Teter, Deputy Sheriff, Wayne County

Jim Robbins, Boone County Attorney

Russell Kettmann, Jackson County Sheriff

Denise Jago, Iowa Department of Corrections, Page County

Vic Conlee, retired Deputy Sheriff, Lee County

Jerry Michael, Detective, Benton County

Stephen Holmes, Story County Attorney

Melissa Anderson-Seeber, Chief Local Public Defender, Black Hawk County

Pat Wegman, Chickasaw County Attorney

Bill Kerns, Clarke County Sheriff

Rodney Ohrt, Deputy Sheriff, Cedar County

Carol McKee, Law Enforcement Center Matron, Davis County
"Crime in America is not an urban problem or a rural problem. It's an American problem. We can't build One America – where every has an equal chance to succeed – until we address this problem so that every one of us is safe – day and night – in our own communities. That means supporting strong and fair law enforcement in every community." - John Edwards
Crime continues to plague American cities and towns. Violent crime increased in 2006 for the second year in a row, reversing a long trend of lowering crime. Violent crime in metropolitan counties grew by 3 percent and murder in those counties grew by 6 percent. And rural areas continue to be affected by trends of crystal meth abuse and farm crimes. [AP, 6/2/2007; FBI, 2007; BJS, 2005; Christian Science Monitor, 10/24/06]
Today, John Edwards released his nine-point Keeping Our Communities Safe initiative to make Americans safer by fighting crime and strengthening law enforcement across the country. As president Edwards will put more cops on the beat, provide resources to fight drug manufacturing and addiction, stop the cycle of repeat offenses, help at-risk youth and promote gun safety while protecting gun rights.