 (Bill Sammon, "Book Excerpt: In New York, Illegal Immigration Took A Back Seat To Making The City Safe," 
, 12/11/07)
 "Rudy Giuliani says he wanted to deport all 400,000 illegal immigrants from New York City when he was mayor, but ended up welcoming most of those who were 'causing me no trouble.' ... 'If they could, I would have turned all the people over. It would have helped me. I would have had a smaller population. I would have had fewer problems,' the Republican presidential candidate told The Examiner in an interview. 'But the practical reality was, they were going to make an infinitesimal, statistically insignificant contribution to the problem. I was stuck with it. And no matter what their promises, they weren't going to do anything about it.'" (Bill Sammon, "Book Excerpt: In New York, Illegal Immigration Took A Back Seat To Making The City Safe," 
, 12/11/07)
 "[Mr. Giuliani said,] 'If you come here and you work hard and you happen to be in an undocumented status, you're one of the people who we want in this city. You're somebody that we want to protect, and we want you to get out from under what is often a life of being like a fugitive, which is really unfair.'" (Deborah Sontag, "New York Officials Welcome Immigrants, Legal Or Illegal," 
, 6/10/94)
 MAYOR RUDY GIULIANI: "The Immigration and Naturalization Service isn't going to deport them. 
." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks At The National Press Club, Washington, D.C., 5/27/97)
 GIULIANI: "What we're being asked to do in practicality is to turn names over to 
 Immigration and Naturalization Service, and 
" (NPR's "Weekend Edition Saturday," 10/12/96)
 "So the mayor resigned himself to the federal government's inability or unwillingness to deport illegal immigrants. In the process, he absolved himself of any blame for the city's ongoing status as a haven for 400,000 illegals. 
 But Giuliani's 'I don't care' attitude toward illegals sometimes morphed into unabashed cheerleading, as if he were rolling out the red carpet for them." (Bill Sammon, "Book Excerpt: In New York, Illegal Immigration Took A Back Seat To Making The City Safe," 
, 12/11/07)