MANCHESTER, NH - At an event in Manchester this afternoon, the New Hampshire affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA-NH) officially announced its endorsement of Senator Hillary Clinton for President. With 16,000 members, NEA-NH is the largest union in the Granite State.
"I am honored to have earned the support of this incredible organization," said Senator Clinton. "Together we will work to strengthen America's public education system, ensure that every child has the opportunity live up to his or her potential, and provide our educators with the resources they need."
As an advocate, First Lady, and United States Senator, Hillary has fought to raise the education standards in our nation's schools. Hillary is committed to both fully funding and reforming No Child Left Behind (NCLB). She is also working actively to secure additional funding for early childhood education programs, such as Head Start, that help prepare children to succeed in school.
"We are extremely proud to announce our support of Senator Clinton for president today," said Rhonda Wesolowski, NEA-NH President. "Senator Clinton has been working to improve education for 35 years. She has laid out a plan to establish universal pre-kindergarten, and is committed to reforming and fully funding the No Child Left Behind Act. We believe that Senator Clinton will be a president who advocates on behalf of our nation's educators and works to improve our public education system."
As an advocate, First Lady, and United States Senator, Hillary has fought to raise the education standards in our nation's schools. Hillary is committed to:
This agenda builds on Hillary's long record of support for education. In Arkansas, Hillary chaired the Arkansas Educational Standards Commission, which improved schools; as First Lady of the U.S., she helped grow the federal afterschool initiative from a $1 million pilot program to $1 billion program, reaching children in every state. As Senator, she created programs to recruit and retain teachers and principals to underserved areas; enacted legislation to eliminate environmental toxins in schools; helped write legislation to reauthorize the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act; championed successful efforts to expand the number of math and science teachers and provide math and science educators with innovative teaching tools; and enacted legislation to create income-contingent repayment programs for student loans and to reduce student debt for teachers, child care workers, and other service professionals.
The New Hampshire for Hillary campaign has announced the names of over 500 educators from across the state who are supporting Senator Clinton. In addition, Dr. Lyonel Tracy, New Hampshire Commissioner of Education, recently announced his endorsement of Hillary for president.