 "I remember back to the 1970s and the early 1980s. Iranian mullahs took American hostages and they held the American hostages for 444 days."
 "On November 4, 1979, Iranian militants stormed the United States Embassy in Tehran and took approximately seventy Americans captive. This terrorist act triggered the most profound crisis of the Carter presidency and began a personal ordeal for Jimmy Carter and the American people that lasted 444 days." (The Jimmy Carter Library & Museum Website, 
 APP: broken link] documents/hostages.phtml, Accessed 11/11/07)
 "And they released the American hostages in one hour, and that should tell us a lot about these Islamic terrorists that we're facing. The one hour in which they released them was the one hour in which Ronald Reagan was taking the Oath of Office as President of the United States."
 "President Reagan announced today the long-sought goal of his predecessor: that 52 American citizens, hostages in Tehran for an agonizing 14 1/2 months, 'are now free of Iran.' 'We can all drink to this one,' he said. … In a toast to congressional leaders just two hours after he succeeded [sic] Carter, Reagan raised his glass of California wine and said: 'And now to conclude … with thanks to almighty God. I have been given a tagline, the get-off line that everyone wants for the end of a toast or a speech or anything else: 'Some 30 minutes ago, the planes bearing our prisoners left Iranian air space and they're now free of Iran." (The Associated Press, 1/20/81)
 The Associated Press, 1/20/81)
 "The best way you deal with dictators, the best way you deal with tyrants and terrorists, you stand up to them. You don't back down. I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
 (Ralph Peters, Op-Ed, "Comforting The Enemy," New York Post, 3/25/04)
 (MSNBC's "Hardball," 10/25/02)
 (Marc Sandalow, "Is Bush Consistent Or Doing An About-Face?" San Francisco Chronicle, 6/30/05)
 "President Reagan was genial, yet tied tightly to his convictions. Gorbachev arrived at the 1986 summit in Reykjavik prepared to offer whatever cuts in Soviet weapons it would take to convince President Reagan to drop the Strategic Defense Initiative. To Ronald Reagan, SDI--safeguarding America from nuclear attack--was a core principle. He was ready to walk away from an arms deal rather than capitulate. And walk away he did." (Ed Meese, Op-Ed, "At His Side," National Review, 6/28/04)
 "Congressional Democrats say the failure of the arms talks in [Reykjavik,] Iceland gives them new ammunition to fight President Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative and could help them pick up seats in next month's elections. But Republicans are applauding Reagan's decision to walk away from a Soviet 'trap,' and saying the Soviets' eagerness to scuttle the space-based anti-missile system shows just how important it could be to the defense of the United States. … But Rep. Jack Kemp, R-N.Y., an SDI stalwart, expressed relief that Reagan 'walked away from an agreement that violated one of his highest goals, the development of a strategic defense for ourselves and our allies.' 'The Soviets are going to have to come back to the table,' Kemp predicted." (Christopher Connell, The Associated Press, 10/13/86)
 "A senior Soviet official says Moscow is willing to accept wide-ranging testing of the U.S. 'Star Wars' space defense system to spur the signing of a strategic arms agreement. The official, who spoke Thursday on condition he not be identified or directly quoted, said he believed it is possible to reach an agreement cutting strategic nuclear arsenals by 50 percent in time for the Moscow summit, expected at the end of May. In a rare glimpse of senior Soviet thinking, the official emphasized his belief U.S.-Soviet relations had moved from an era of worldwide confrontation to one of seriously seeking peaceful solutions to problems. The position he outlined on the Star Wars program — officially, the Strategic Defense Initiative — was the most generous interpretation of permitted testing so far by the Soviet side." (Jack Redden, "Soviets To Allow Wide Testing Of 'Stae Wars,'" United Press International, 2/26/88)
 "Libya's action halted an active nuclear weapons program that U.S. intelligence agencies had never said publicly that Libya possessed. It was announced after nine months of consultations with U.S. and British intelligence services that began at Libya's initiation almost simultaneously with the U.S.- and British-led invasion of Iraq." (William Douglas and Jonathan S. Landay, "Bush Hails Libyan Plans to End Nuclear, Chemical Weapons Programs," Knight Ridder, 12/20/03)
 "Gadhafi of Libya would not have given up his illicit nuclear weapons program had Hussein not been chased into and dragged out of a spider hole, and A.Q. Khan's nuclear technology black market would not have been exposed and shut down." ("What If …?" The Philadelphia Inquirer, 9/11/05)
 (Editorial, "A 'Critical Mass' For Freedom," The Cincinnati Enquirer, 3/10/05)
 "Bush's move into Iraq exemplifies a commitment to stay on the offensive against terror, and to do so militarily where necessary and feasible, as was the case in Iraq. The message has been clearly heard in capitals around the world. That's why strongman Moammar Khadafy relinquished Libya's WMD program, and it's why a nuclear black market operating out of Pakistan has been shut down." (Editorial, "Right War, Right Time, Right Man," Daily News, 10/31/04)
 "We judge with high confidence that the halt, and Tehran's announcement of its decision to suspend its declared uranium enrichment program and sign an Additional Protocol to its Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Safeguards Agreement, was directed primarily in response to increasing international scrutiny and pressure resulting from exposure of Iran's previously undeclared nuclear work." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)
 "Our assessment that Iran halted the program in 2003 primarily in response to international pressure indicates Tehran's decisions are guided by a cost-benefit approach rather than a rush to a weapon irrespective of the political, economic, and military costs. This, in turn, suggests that some combination of threats of intensified international scrutiny and pressures, along with opportunities for Iran to achieve its security, prestige, and goals for regional influence in other ways, might—if perceived by Iran's leaders as credible—prompt Tehran to extend the current halt to its nuclear weapons program. It is difficult to specify what such a combination might be." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)
 (Greg Miller, "Iran Halted Nuclear Push In 2003, U.S. Now Says," Los Angeles Times, 12/4/07)
 (Greg Miller, "Iran Halted Nuclear Push In 2003, U.S. Now Says," Los Angeles Times, 12/4/07)
 "We assess with moderate confidence that convincing the Iranian leadership to forgo the eventual development of nuclear weapons will be difficult given the linkage many within the leadership probably see between nuclear weapons development and Iran's key national security and foreign policy objectives, and given Iran's considerable effort from at least the late 1980s to 2003 to develop such weapons. In our judgment, only an Iranian political decision to abandon a nuclear weapons objective would plausibly keep Iran from eventually producing nuclear weapons—and such a decision is inherently reversible." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)
 "Because of intelligence gaps discussed elsewhere in this Estimate, however, DOE and the NIC assess with only moderate confidence that the halt to those activities represents a halt to Iran's entire nuclear weapons program." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)
 "We assess centrifuge enrichment is how Iran probably could first produce enough fissile material for a weapon, if it decides to do so. Iran resumed its declared centrifuge enrichment activities in January 2006, despite the continued halt in the nuclear weapons program." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)
 "Iranian entities are continuing to develop a range of technical capabilities that could be applied to producing nuclear weapons, if a decision is made to do so. For example, Iran's civilian uranium enrichment program is continuing. We also assess with high confidence that since fall 2003, Iran has been conducting research and development projects with commercial and conventional military applications—some of which would also be of limited use for nuclear weapons." (National Intelligence Council, "Iran: Nuclear Intentions And Capabilities," 
, 11/07)