 In 2001, President Bush launched the Health Center Growth Initiative and set a goal to significantly impact 1,200 communities across the nation by supporting new or expanded health center sites. The Administration has since exceeded that goal through the President's expansion initiative, funding 1,236 new or expanded health center sites. We now have over 4,000 comprehensive sites across the country.
The Community Health Center the President visited today became a federally-funded center in 2001 with funding from the Department of Health and Human Services.
 These Health Centers are important to millions of Americans because they provide primary care, as well as access to pharmacy, preventive dental, mental health, prenatal care, and substance abuse services.
 These programs have been a great success for our Nation's Medicare beneficiaries. Medicare is now in the middle of its annual open enrollment period for the prescription drug program and for private plan choices. Local organizations, including Community Health Centers, have been instrumental in educating beneficiaries about their choices and helping them choose a coverage option that is right for them.
 In his State of the Union address, the President proposed reforming the tax code with a standard deduction for every American who buys health insurance, whether they get it through their jobs or on their own. His proposal would also tap the innovation of States in making basic, affordable insurance more available by creating grants to redirect institutional subsidies to help ensure the poor and hard-to-insure have access to private health insurance.
 He has directed Federal agencies to share information with beneficiaries about prices paid to health care providers for procedures and about the quality of services provided by doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers. Increased transparency about prices and quality will help bring more competition to health care and enable beneficiaries to make better health care purchasing choices.
 Electronic health records show promise as a way that could help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of medical treatment. In 2004, the President launched an initiative to make electronic health records available to most Americans within the next 10 years. Last year, he directed Federal agencies to use improved health IT systems to facilitate the rapid exchange of health information.
 HSAs allow people to save money for health care tax-free, and to take these accounts with them if they move from job to job.
 Small businesses, as well as civic and community groups, should be allowed to band together in AHPs to get the same discounts big companies receive.
 These lawsuits are wasting scarce resources, increasing health care costs, and driving doctors out of business.