 – Today, as part of "Building a Better America" week, Senator John Edwards unveiled proposals to help American families achieve the dream of homeownership. During the week, Edwards is challenging Americans to meet the great moral test of our time – to ensure our generation leaves this country better for our children than it was when our parents gave it to us. To meet this challenge, today Edwards called for stronger action to lead us out of the foreclosure crisis and help families keep their homes, without bailing out irresponsible investors and speculators.
"Homeownership is the foundation of the American Dream," said Edwards. "But risky mortgages with hidden fees and exploding interest rates are putting millions of families in jeopardy of losing their homes. The tragedy of the foreclosure crisis is that – while foreclosure filings have nearly doubled over the past year - many families could afford to stay in their homes under fair repayment terms or could eventually obtain legal relief from fraudulent or predatory loans.
"The Bush-Paulson plan, which calls for the industry to voluntarily freeze the interest rate on adjustable-rate mortgages, could help families whose mortgages have not yet reset, but it will leave millions of families still at risk of foreclosure. We must act decisively and take other steps to help families keep their homes and stop serious economic damage."
To bring accountability and results to the foreclosure crisis, Edwards will:
"It's not enough to address the problems of current homeowners – we must take steps to prevent a future crisis and we must create more affordable housing opportunities for American families," Edwards continued. "As president, I will restore the American Dream of homeownership by standing up to the corporate interests and their lobbyists and passing strong federal laws to protect working families from predatory mortgages and abusive financial products."
During "Building a Better America" week, Edwards is highlighting five core proposals to help change America for the better: universal health care, good jobs, excellent schools, affordable housing and strong families. Edwards' plans for ending the foreclosure crisis are a component of his proposals to increase affordable housing. Edwards has also called for helping families save for a downpayment with a new Get Ahead tax credit, creating 1 million housing vouchers to let families live where they choose, and building more economically integrated housing.
For more information on Edwards' plan for ending the housing crisis, please see the policy document included below.
"Homeownership is the foundation of the American Dream. Dangerous mortgages have put millions of families in jeopardy of losing their homes. It's time for Washington to stop taking care of banks and their lobbyists and act decisively to help regular families." -- John Edwards
Home equity is the bedrock of economic security and the primary source of most families' wealth. But in recent years, dangerous mortgages with "exploding" interest rates and hidden fees – combined with the housing slump – have meant quick profits for lenders and brokers but put millions of families at risk of losing their homes. Foreclosure filings have nearly doubled over the past year. Interest rates are set to rise sharply on about 2.5 million loans over the next 18 months, causing many families' monthly payments to increase by 30 percent or more. Many families could avoid foreclosure if their mortgages were modified – letting them keep their homes while also making lenders and communities better off – but only about 1 percent of borrowers facing an interest rate increase have gotten changes. [RealtyTrac, 2007; FDIC, 2007; Center for American Progress, 2007; US Conference of Mayors, 2007; CNN Money, 9/26/07]
On behalf of President Bush, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is encouraging industry leaders to voluntarily freeze interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgages. His plan is an important step but would leave out millions of families. Today, John Edwards called for stronger action to lead us out of the foreclosure crisis and help families keep their homes, without bailing out irresponsible investors and speculators. He will:
For the first time in history, a wave of home foreclosures has been set off by a type of financial product, not by a recession or local plant closings. Families in foreclosure stand to lose more than $164 billion in household wealth and their neighbors up to $233 billion in lost property value and local tax revenue. While lenders rush to foreclose, many families could afford to stay in their homes under fair repayment terms or obtain legal relief from fraudulent or predatory loans. [CRL, 2007]
John Edwards believes that the Bush-Paulson plan could help some families if the freeze on interest rates lasts long enough. However, the plan leaves millions of families at risk of future foreclosure, failing to remove the threat hanging over America's neighborhoods and the economy. It:
To end the foreclosure crisis, Edwards will:
 Only 1 percent of borrowers whose rates reset this summer have been offered new terms that would let them keep their home. Edwards will require loan servicers to negotiate in good faith with every borrower facing foreclosure by reviewing the homeowner's financial situation and offering an alternative repayment plan, forbearance, or loan modification. Banking regulators led by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will set interagency guidelines for these workouts based on the principles of lender safety and soundness as well as accountability for lenders' role in issuing millions of unaffordable mortgages. Edwards will also consider creating new legal protection for lenders making loan modifications. The new foreclosure prevention requirement will be effective for the duration of the current crisis. Families will have the right to stop a foreclosure if their lender has not taken these steps. To hold companies accountable, Edwards will require companies to provide monthly updates of the volume of loan modifications, settlements and refinances. [NCLC, 2007]
 Timely intervention can often save homes at modest cost by paying several months' payments, offering bridge loans, or helping families work out an affordable repayment plan. Edwards will create a Home Rescue Fund to expand existing efforts by non-profits local, governments, and community financial institutions. Foreclosures can cascade through neighborhoods as property values fall and owners are unable to refinance or sell. Edwards will support efforts to rehabilitate and quickly rent or sell foreclosed homes to stabilize neighborhoods. [NCRC, 2007; Enterprise Foundation, 2007]
 Bankruptcy is a much-needed safety net for families financially destroyed by abusive debt. But while bankruptcy filers can modify loans on their investment properties, vacation homes and boats, they cannot modify their mortgage on their family home. Edwards will let bankruptcy judges rewrite mortgages for primary residences, writing off excessive debt that exceeds the value of the home and setting fair repayment terms for the remaining debt. Lenders would still have mortgage notes for 100 percent of the house's value. The relief would be available only at a judge's discretion and only once for each homeowner. These changes will help as many as 600,000 families keep their homes through the current crisis, without disrupting the flow of credit. Closing the mortgage lender loophole will also help families who do not go bankrupt, by increasing their leverage in their negotiations with lenders over fair repayment terms. [CRL, 2007]
 While subprime loans are valuable to homeowners with poor credit, an unknown but significant percentage of subprime loans have predatory terms or were originated deceptively. Families should not lose their homes because their lender violated the law. Edwards will require lenders and servicers to report their entire inventory of loans to the government, clarifying ownership and facilitating federal, state and private investigations into fraud and predatory lending. State attorneys general and regulators undertaking similar investigations have yielded multi-million dollar settlements from lenders and servicers such as AmeriQuest, Citigroup, and Fairbanks Capital in recent years. [Washington Post, 1/21/06]
 Foreclosure scammers charge hefty fees for little or no work, while wasting precious time that leaves borrowers pressed to save their homes once the scam is discovered. They can even induce or outright defraud the homeowner into transferring over the deed to the house, stripping all the remaining equity. Defaulting homeowners are especially vulnerable because most lack legal representation or reliable financial advice, and in many states foreclosures operate outside the court system, without access to any official oversight. Edwards called for a Federal Task Force on Foreclosure Rescue Fraud to coordinate the efforts of state attorneys general, the F.B.I. and the U.S. Attorney's office to coordinate efforts. He also proposes a national hotline for tips on foreclosure prevention scams and will require all lenders to include warnings about foreclosure prevention scams in all borrower correspondence. [NCLC, 2005]
John Edwards believes that it is not enough to address the problems of current homeowners. It is also long past time for strong federal laws to prevent future crises and for Washington to create new affordable housing opportunities for American families. As president, he will:
 North Carolina passed a strong law against predatory lending in 1999, and it has protected families without decreasing access to credit. But the subprime mortgage lending industry has spent $210 million in campaign donations and lobbying in Washington and successfully blocked national protections. Edwards will pass a strong national law to prohibit abuses in the mortgage market while retaining state consumer protections. The law will:
 Because financial products continue to evolve rapidly, banning the worst practices alone is not enough. Vigorous continuing regulation is needed. Federal bank regulators have focused instead on bank soundness and profitability while non-bank finance companies virtually escape regulation. Edwards will put a new agency on the side of families. The Family Savings and Credit Commission will be a tough new regulator, reviewing all financial services products marketed to families, including abusive mortgages, to ensure that terms are reasonable and fairly disclosed and overseeing all types of financial institutions, whether chartered under federal or state law. To cut excess bureaucracy, Edwards will eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision. [Warren, 2007]