 "When I became Mayor of New York City things were out of control."
 (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
 (Bruce Frankel and Keith Greenberg, "Giuliani Edges Dinkins In Bitter NYC Contest," USA Today, 11/3/93)
 (Russell Shorto, Op-Ed, "All Political Ideas Are Local," The New York Times, 10/2/05)
 George Will: "[T]he wisdom of New York was … that it was impossible to govern the city. … When I say that being Mayor of New York is demanding, I mean this. It has more people than do 39 other states. It is more difficult to govern than all 50 of the states. This for a reason — New York City has been liberalism's laboratory in the 20th century, which means it is a seriously troubled place, or was. It produced a culture of complaint, which led to the politics of victimhood, which led to government by grievance groups, and the learned dependency of an over-developed welfare state." (George Will, Remarks At CPAC, 3/2/07)
 ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139)
 (Michelangelo Rucci, "Tales Of A Big, Rotten Apple," The Advertiser, 4/23/90)
 ("New York: Giuliani Seeks To Delay NYC Recycling Law," Greenwire, 3/29/94)
 "Of all the problems Giuliani will face, none will loom larger – or sooner – than the question of what to do about the city's finances. Under a tough law passed after the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s, he will be required to explain in January how he plans to close the gap in the current year's budget, estimated at about $400 million [and growing]. Soon after, he will be required to come up with the outline of his budget for the fiscal year starting next summer, which currently contains a projected $1.5-billion deficit [and growing]." (Karen Rothmyer, "Giuliani Seen As Good For Business," Newsday, 11/4/93)
 (Editorial, "A Responsible Budget," The New York Times, 5/11/94)
 (Steven Lee Myers, "A Deficit Revisited," The New York Times, 7/31/94)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/27/98)
 "At least a few New Yorkers have long despaired of making non-New Yorkers grasp the gargantuan perversity of the city's welfare system. Help has arrived. 'Hands to Work,' by Columbia journalism Prof. LynNell Hancock, purports to be an expose of welfare reform under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. It is far more profitably read as a breathtaking tour of the mindset — supplied by the author and by those she writes about — that for decades made New York the welfare capital of the world." (Heather MacDonald, Op-Ed, "When Bad Habits Met A Mayor Who Wouldn't Put Up With Them," The Wall Street Journal, 1/23/02)
 (George Will, Remarks At CPAC, 3/2/07)
 (U.S. Department Of Commerce Bureau Of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Information Systems, Downloadable Files Available At: 
, Accessed 8/14/07; New York City Independent Budget Office, "City Revenue And Spending Since 1980," 
, Accessed 11/11/07)
 "A study commissioned by the Hotel Association of the City of New York and the New York State Hospitality and Tourism Association found that the city is the highest-taxed destination in the country, at $23.74 per night, compared with $7.67 in other major cities. As a result, hoteliers and tourism officials say, the city is losing business, some of it just across the Hudson to hotels in New Jersey." (Alan Wax, "Hoteliers Push For Repeal Of Occupancy Tax," Newsday, 5/24/93)
 "The [hotel] tax has annoyed various meeting planners to the extent that some are boycotting New York. The Birmingham, Ala.-based Professional Convention Management Association, a major organizer of medical association meetings, said it will no longer schedule events in New York and urged its 3,100 members to avoid the state until the tax is repealed." (Alan Wax, "Hoteliers Push For Repeal Of Occupancy Tax," Newsday, 5/24/93)
 "I lowered taxes."
 Giuliani: "We wanted to reduce taxes and be able to accomplish some of that with the Democratic City Council, overwhelmingly Democratic. We ended up reducing taxes … 23 times successfully …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOKQ Radio's Don Brian, Portsmouth, NH, 3/12/07)
 
 (City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1996; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1997; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1998; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 2002)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, pp. 8, 11)
 "I reduced the growth of government."
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3; Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, 
, Accessed 5/3/07)
 (Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, 
, Accessed 5/3/07)
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, p. 9; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 242)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet;)
 "Made government more accountable."
 "The Republican mayor, who's nearing the end of a second term, spoke at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel after receiving Columbia Business School's 2001 award for distinguished leadership in government. … Giuliani, however, wanted to be held accountable. 'We've tried to introduce accountability into how this city is governed,' he said." ("Giuliani Receives Leadership Award," The Associated Press, 5/7/01)
 (Adelle Waldman, "The Mayor Who (Some Say) Saved His City," The Christian Science Monitor, 6/28/05)
 (Alice Thomson, "Rudy Can Teach Tony Blair How To Govern," The [London] Daily Telegraph, 2/15/02)
 "People ask me all the time, how did you do it? How did you take New York City from being the crime capital of America to being the safest large city in the country? How did you take it from being the welfare capital of America … [to] being the welfare-to-work capital of America? How did you take it from a deficit to a surplus, and all the things that were part of the turnaround in New York City? Well, there were a lot of components to it. … But if there's one program that probably is at the core of it, it's the CompStat program." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "If New York City were a business and therefore were accountable, how would you deal with it? And that led us in part to the CompStat program. … This is what CompStat is all about: accurate and timely intelligence, effective tactics, rapid deployment of personnel and resources, and relentless follow-up and assessment. The key to CompStat is not only deciding what the measure of success is going to be, and measuring it every day on … [T]he key to it is relentless follow-up and assessment. Having a CompStat meeting every week. Because very often in businesses or in governments all these statistics are created and people take them and they put them in their drawer, and six months later they look at the statistics. The innovation that CompStat brought about was, it required everyone to confront the statistics every week." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "[E]very place that has used these programs, including Los Angeles and many cities in the country and now some foreign countries have found them to be revolutionary in being able to turn governments into accountable, responsible organizations." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 
 "Mayor Rudolph Giuliani unveiled a new accountability initiative at City Hall on Wednesday … The mayor outlined his CAPSTAT program, in which 18 city agencies will adopt a reporting plan based on the Police Department's Compstat program. Top officials in those agencies, which include the health and fire departments, will now be accountable for their productivity during weekly meetings with supervisors. Results of the data gathered – for instance, the number of potholes filled during a certain period – will be posted by each agency on the city's Web site." (Timothy Williams, "Giuliani Invites Billionaire Candidate To Policy Address," The Associated Press, 8/15/01)
. All City agencies were mobilized to identify the uninsured and help them enroll in public health insurance programs. (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Mayor Giuliani Launches HealthStat Public Awareness Campaign," Press Release, 11/27/00)
 (David Seifman, "Rudy's 'Healthy' Change Of Heart," New York Post, 6/15/00)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Mayor Giuliani Announces Back-To-School Campaign To Enroll Children In Health Insurance At Stores And Schools Citywide," Press Release, 8/29/01)
 (Editorial, "JobStat Works For Welfare," Daily News, 10/4/99)
 (Editorial, "New York, A Success Story," Daily News, 4/10/00)
 "In New York, which had become an international welfare mecca, the results were especially startling – thanks entirely to Mayor Rudy Giuliani, a longtime welfare-reform advocate. Giuliani's leadership forced a change from the welfare mentality to one of workfare – in which administrators worked with recipients to wean them off paid benefits and into permanent jobs. As the former mayor put it, 'The best social program is a job.'" (Editorial, "Ten Years Of Success," New York Post, 8/22/06)
 "And New York City boomed."
 (Monthly Report On Current Economic Conditions, City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, 5/2/03)
 (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Employment And Unemployment Data, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (Robert D. Hershey Jr., "Unemployment Is Put At 6.7% By New Method," The New York Times, 2/5/94; Martin Crutsinger, "U.S. Unemployment Dips Slightly To 4.4 Percent In May," The Associated Press, 6/1/01)
 (Chip Brown, "Escape From New York," The New York Times, 1/30/94)
 (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Private Employment Data, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (U.S. Department Of Commerce Bureau Of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Information Systems, Downloadable Files Available At 
)
 (U.S. Department Of Commerce Bureau Of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Information Systems, Downloadable Files Available At: 
, Accessed 8/14/07)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Fiscal Year 1999 Mayor's Management Report, p.57; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Fiscal Year 2001 Mayor's Management Report, p. 469)
 "I would do these things for America because I know they work."
 (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks On His 12 Commitments To The American People, Bedford, NH, 6/12/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Requiring agency heads to identify savings and increased efficiencies in each annual budget – as Rudy Giuliani did as Mayor – is a management tool that will lead to constant streamlining and more cost-effective government spending without compromising national security in the search for savings. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Rudy's plan establishes a Government-wide Accountability Program ["GAPStat"] based on New York's successful CompStat program to better evaluate each agency, analyze the effectiveness of Federal programs, and identify those that are wasteful, failing or duplicative. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Giuliani: "I've seen how pro-growth policies lead to broader prosperity. We'll not only keep the current tax cuts in place or their equivalent, we'll enact additional tax relief and give the Death Tax the death penalty. High tax rates hurt business and destroy jobs. I know that tax cuts are good for the economy. It's not just theory for me because I cut taxes and got results as Mayor of New York City. As President, I will cut taxes further." (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Giuliani: "We'll make it a FedStat program, and we will use it — we will use it to measure the effectiveness of what we're doing: measure the effectiveness of what we're doing at the border with the BorderStat program, measure the effectiveness of protecting America with the TerrorStat program, measure the effectiveness on our State Department, on our Defense Department, and all the agencies of government doing the thing what they're supposed to do, to make America's mission more effective in the world, to make America's military modern and able to deal with the — in a flexible way, with the challenges they have today. You get what you measure. If you don't have measurement standards, government's out of control." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks On His 12 Commitments To The American People, Bedford, NH, 6/12/07)
 "Now, this is what we should apply to the federal government, in order to satisfy the complaints and the criticisms of the people who say 'Washington doesn't accomplish anything.' The concept must be — and if I were president, this is the way I would do it, and we're going to begin organizing it now, because we began organizing what we were going to do in New York City 18 months before — we've got to look at each one of the functions of the federal government and impose business-like standards on it, CompStat standards on it." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "There should be a BorderStat program. The BorderStat program should measure the number of people coming over the border. The BorderStat program should try to determine how many people are coming over the border that are undetected. As the government rolls out its high technology program … the technology is going to be there to figure out how many people are coming over that are undetected. That should be recorded every day, every night. It should be examined every single morning. And you should look at it and see how successful you're being in stopping people from coming over the border. … The BorderStat program can bring about what we desperately need, which is control of our borders." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "You can take the CompStat program and you can apply it to terror — TerrorStat. It's a program that is … being developed in certain places in the country. It should be developed for the entire country, that is, trying to figure out what are the precursors that suggest that there's going to be a terrorist act, suspicious activity. … You need a system to make sure that we're getting all that information and we're getting the best use out of local law enforcement. … [T]he FBI is limited in resources. Local police are unlimited in resources, hundreds of thousands. Is it 700,000 local police? … They should be our eyes and ears with the FBI helping to coordinate that, work with that, working with them. A TerrorStat program can get that intelligence to the right place." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "A GAPStat program can help us measure whether we're actually imposing fiscal discipline on the government. It's my promise that I would reduce the size of the federal employees. … 42 percent of them are retiring in the next 10 years. My objective would be to try to replace about half those positions. No one would lose their job, but the position wouldn't get filled. We would replace those positions with technology or with figuring out how people can be more productive. Well, you've got to track that. You have to have a GAPStat program to track that, and to track the out-of-control expenditures in each one of the agencies." (Mayor Giuliani, Press Conference, New York, NY, 5/31/07)
 "I know that reducing taxes produces more revenues."
 CNBC's LARRY KUDLOW: "The level of revenues, federal tax collection revenues is higher in 2006 than it was at the peak of the Clinton boom in 2000, and that's after multiple Bush tax cuts. Moreover, Art, even the level of personal income revenues and tax collections is higher. Now, does that or does that not support the Laffer Curve?" ART LAFFER: "Of course, it does … Bush's tax cuts clearly have worked and so did Reagan's, so did Kennedy's." (CNBC's "Kudlow & Company," 1/23/07)
 "Nor is the idea new that tax cuts can sometimes spur economic growth, resulting in more jobs for workers and higher earnings for business, leading to more tax revenue for the government. A highly regarded economist once observed that 'taxation may be so high as to defeat its object,' so that sometimes 'a reduction of taxation will run a better chance, than an increase, of balancing the Budget.' Who said that? Milton Friedman? Arthur Laffer? No. It was said in 1933 by John Maynard Keynes, a liberal icon. Lower tax rates have led to higher tax revenues many times, both before and since Keynes's statement — the Kennedy tax cuts in the 1960s, the Reagan tax cuts in the 1980s, and the recent Bush tax cuts that have led to record high tax revenues this April." (Thomas Sowell, Op-Ed, "Angry Left," National Review, 5/15/07)
 (Brian Riedl, "Taxing Myths," National Review, 4/17/07)
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix II, p. II-10, II-16, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)
 (City Of New York's Office Of Management And Budget, Tax Revenue Forecasting Documentation Financial Plan Fiscal Years 2005-2009: Appendix V, p. V-3, 
, Accessed 7/20/07)
 "'The budget that the City Council will adopt reduces spending by over $100 million from last year's budget and reduces City headcount by 15,000. This budget will eliminate the City portion of the hotel occupancy tax, as well as reduce the commercial rent tax,' said Mayor Giuliani. 'It is a testament to our collective willingness to employ creative strategies to downsize government and cut taxes.'" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Mayor Giuliani and Speaker Vallone Agree on FY '95 Budget," Press Release, 6/21/94).
 "The 1994 repeal of the hotel-occupancy tax, often plugged by Giuliani as exemplary (and carried out jointly with the administration of Gov. Mario Cuomo), is a prime example of the divide: Before December, 1994, hotel guests paying $100 and more for rooms in the city forked over 21.25 percent in state and city taxes, plus a $2-per-night city surcharge. Now the combined rate is 15.25 percent, plus the surcharge. Five percentage points of the cut was state tax, and one point of it, city tax." (Dan Janison, "Rudy's Record," Newsday, 5/25/97)
 (New York City Office Of The Comptroller, "Comprehensive Annual Financial Report Of The Comptroller For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003," p. 243)
 "Democrats don't know that. They don't believe it."
 (Russell Berman, "Clinton's Big Tax Hike," The New York Sun, 5/30/07)
 "A repeal of President Bush's first-term tax cuts would be a large step toward restoring funding and assistance to weakened programs ranging from health care to education … Barack Obama said at a town hall meeting … in Des Moines." (Abby Simons, "Obama Calls For Repeal Of Bush Tax Cuts," The Des Moines Register, 2/22/07)
 (ABC's "This Week," 5/6/07)
 "Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, John Edwards, here's a promise I assure you they'll keep. They are making the promise to raise taxes."
 (Russell Berman, "Clinton's Big Tax Hike," The New York Sun, 5/30/07)
 "Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton said on Tuesday she might seek to scrap certain corporate tax breaks and subject CEO pay to public scrutiny if elected president in November 2008." (Brian Early, "Clinton Proposes Cutting Corporate Tax Breaks," Reuters, 5/29/07)
 "The other day the oil companies reported the highest profits in the history of the world. I want to take those profits and I want to put them into a strategic energy fund that will begin to fund alternative, smart energy. Alternatives and technologies that will begin to actually move us toward the direction of independence." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks At Democrat National Committee Winter Meeting, Washington, DC, 2/2/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," The New York Times, 3/25/07)
 (Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, CNN/WMUR/Union Leader Democrat Presidential Candidates Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/3/07)
 "There is no doubt that the tax system has been skewed, and the Bush tax cuts, people didn't need them and they weren't even asking for them. And that's why they need to be lapsed…." (Sen. Barack Obama, PBS' All-American Presidential Forum, Howard University, Washington, DC, 6/28/07)
 "Obama joins former North Carolina Democratic Sen. John Edwards in calling for higher taxes to help fix the nation's health care woes." (Rick Klein, "No Lip Service: Dems Trade Higher Taxes For Social Programs," ABCNews.com, 5/29/07)
 (S.Con.Res.21, CQ Vote #172: Adopted 52-40: R 2 – 40; D 48 – 0; I 2 – 0, 5/17/07; Obama Voted Yea)
 "First, we need to get rid of George Bush's tax cuts for rich people which have distorted the tax system in America. … But the second problem that he's talking about is we have a capital gains rate, 15 percent, which is the rate that most people pay on their investment income, like Warren Buffett, that's significantly lower than the tax rate that his secretary pays. … That's not right. There is a moral disconnect." (Former Sen. John Edwards, PBS' All-American Presidential Forum, Howard University, Washington, DC, 6/28/07)
 "Edwards, who has drifted steadily to the left since he first ran in 2004, suggested that a windfall-profits tax on business and individuals might be a way to reduce the deficit while expanding healthcare and promoting energy independence, two of his priorities." (Mark Z. Barabak and Maeve Reston, "Edwards Puts Taxes For Rich On The Table," Los Angeles Times, 4/30/07)
 "[T]he North Carolina Democrat told reporters that 'paying additional taxes, an excess-profits, excess-income tax' was a notion 'worthy of consideration.'" (Mark Z. Barabak and Maeve Reston, "Edwards Puts Taxes For Rich On The Table," Los Angeles Times, 4/30/07)
 STEPHANOPOULOS: "[Y]ou did cite another tax on excess income. Does that mean you're open to raising taxes on the wealthy beyond reversing the Bush tax cuts? EDWARDS: "Yes, yeah, the answer to that question is yes, I am." (ABC's "This Week," 5/6/07)
 (NBC's "Meet The Press," 2/4/07)
 "The only thing I can tell you in addition to that is they'll raise taxes even more than they promise. I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
 (ABC's "World News Now," 6/1/07)
 (Editorial, "The Obama Zigzag," The San Diego Union-Tribune, 11/16/07)
 (Editorial, "Sen. Hillary, Add Up The Cost!" Chattanooga Times Free Press, 10/28/07)
 (Marcella Bombardieri, "Clinton Vows To Check Executive Power," The Boston Globe, 10/11/07)