Just days after announcing a comprehensive strategy to fight HIV/AIDS in the U.S. and abroad, the Clinton campaign unveiled an aggressive agenda to combat other infectious diseases and poverty in developing nations. Hillary Clinton will discuss her proposals at the Third Annual Global Summit on AIDS and the church hosted by Pastor Rick and Kay Warren at Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, CA.
The plan includes at least $50 billion to provide universal access to treatment, prevention, and care for global HIV/AIDS by 2013. The plan also includes a $1 billion per year commitment to address malaria infection in Africa, with the goal of stamping out malaria deaths in Africa altogether by the end of her second term.
Groups working to fight malaria lauded the plan and Clinton's leadership on the issue. "The Roll Back Malaria Partnership applauds Hillary Clinton's bold commitment to fight malaria," said Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Minister of Health of Ethiopia and Chair of the Roll Back Malaria Partnership Board.
The Clinton plan also includes investments in providing the world's children with free, basic education, expanding opportunities for women, and eliminating the debt of the world's poorest countries.
Today, Hillary Clinton unveiled her strategy to fight disease and raise hope, opportunity and human dignity around the world. Her plan will reduce poverty, improve health outcomes, increase educational opportunity, expand economic development, and improve political and economic stability around the world.
America has a long and proud history of fighting poverty and encouraging economic development around the world. But that commitment has lagged relative to our own wealth, and in comparison with other prosperous nations. We need again to reclaim this great tradition, which is a testament to the kindness, generosity, and wisdom of the American people. America has long represented the ideal of opportunity. We must once again reclaim our leadership in promoting opportunity around the world. We do this first and foremost because it is right. And we do it also because it is smart. Gnawing hunger, poverty, and the absence of economic prospects are a recipe for despair. Globalization is widening the gap between the haves and the have-nots within societies and between them. Today, there are more than two billion people living on less than $2 a day.
As First Lady and Senator, Hillary Clinton has a long record of advocacy for increased development assistance. She has sought to increase funding for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria programs, raised awareness about the transformative power of microcredit programs, fought to expand education to all children, worked to improve access to essential health services, and has lead efforts to expand recognition of human rights as women's rights, and women's rights as human rights. As President, she will continue her leadership, with a focus on:
Combating malaria is also critical to truly strengthening health infrastructures and effectively combating AIDS, tuberculosis and other diseases. To that end, Hillary has set a bold goal of ending all deaths from malaria on the African continent by the end of her second term. Malaria kills more African children than any other disease—more than AIDS and tuberculosis combined. An African child dies from a mosquito bite every 30 seconds. And malaria exacts a devastating economic toll, lowering economic growth by 1.3% in countries with high transmission rates.
As President, Hillary will commit $1 billion per year as a major down payment to end malarial deaths in Africa. This investment, alongside U.S. commitments to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, will help spur global action to achieve universal access to treatment and preventative measures by the end of 2012. With universal access to a set of low-cost interventions—including treatment with effective medicines, free long-lasting insecticide treated bed-nets, and indoor residual spraying where appropriate—this initiative will dramatically reduce transmission and, by the end of Hillary's second term, stamp out deaths due to malaria altogether. Similar approaches in countries like Kenya and Tanzania have already produced striking results, and faith-based groups and other non-profits are helping in countries across Africa to combat malaria at the community level. Senator Clinton's malaria effort will put us on a path to achieve the long-term goal of completely eradicating malaria from the planet. Hillary will direct the NIH to work with leading research and non-profit institutions to move toward that goal. She would also encourage use of research prizes and advanced market commitments to spur innovation to address other neglected diseases that cause needless death and suffering in poor countries.

  