 – Today in Iowa, Senator John Edwards outlined his plan to take on abusive lenders and help American families save. As president, Edwards will enact strong national legislation to protect families from the most abusive practices in the credit card industries, create a new Family Savings and Credit Commission to make sure that financial services treat families safely, support alternatives to abusive lenders, and help families save and get ahead.
"Debt has become the central fact of middle-class existence," said Edwards. "For most families, wages have not kept up with rising costs for middle-class essentials like health care, housing and child care. Consumer debt has skyrocketed in recent years and today, half of Americans say they live paycheck to paycheck.
"At the same time, abusive credit card companies deliberately build in tricks and traps for families. Consumers often fail to understand the basic terms of their cards due to complicated and confusing disclosures. Most big credit card companies advertise low rates but reserve the right to change rates at any time for any reason – a single late payment can trigger penalties that raise interest rates to an average of almost 25 percent.
Edwards continued, "It's time we did more than say 'buyer beware' while millions of families go broke every year. We should put in place the same consumer protections for financial products that we have for everything else Americans can buy. And when I'm president, I'll do just that by creating new consumer protections against credit-card rip-offs and by helping working families save and get ahead."
To take on the credit card industry – that has spent $250 million on lobbying and campaign contributions since 1998 – Edwards will:
For more information on Edwards' plan to take on abusive lenders and help families save, please see fact sheet below.
American families are working harder, saving less, and borrowing more just to make ends meet. For most families, wages have not kept up with rising costs for middle-class essentials like health care, housing and child care. Half of Americans say they live paycheck to paycheck. [MetLife, 2003; Warren, 2007; Federal Reserve Board, 2007; Demos, 2007]
Abusive credit card companies have launched a sneak attack on the American middle class. Most big credit card companies advertise low rates but reserve the right to change rates at any time for any reason, and a single late payment can trigger penalties that raise interest rates to an average of almost 25 percent. Consumers often fail to understand the basic terms of their cards due to complicated and confusing disclosures. Credit card companies have spent $250 million on lobbying and campaign contributions since 1998. [Demos, 2007; Demos, 2007; GAO, 2006; Center for Responsive Politics, 2007]
Today, John Edwards discussed his plan to create new consumer protections against credit card rip-offs and protect the middle class. As president he will: