 – Today, Senator John Edwards unveiled his "Cities Rising" agenda to revitalize urban America and make sure Americans living in urban areas have the chance to work hard and build better lives for their children. Edwards' urban agenda would strengthen cities and support families in urban areas by creating more good jobs, strengthening urban schools, expanding affordable housing, ending poverty within a generation, and fighting crime and reforming criminal justice.
"Today, too many Americans are separated from the opportunities of our country because of where they live," said Edwards. "Many cities are dealing with struggling schools, high-poverty neighborhoods and increasing violence. Urban families are often cut off from good jobs, good schools and opportunities to get ahead.
"We need to make sure families living in urban areas have the same chances to succeed as the rest of America. As president, I will strengthen our cities and build One America, where all Americans, whether they live in big cities, small towns or the suburbs, have access to good-paying jobs, health care, and a great education. With a real commitment to our cities, we can restore hope to urban America and make sure we leave our children, in every part of the country, a better, more prosperous life."
Today, Edwards will participate in the Every Child Matters Presidential Candidate Forum, the Heartland Presidential Forum and the Iowa Brown & Black Presidential Forum, where he will discuss his plans to ensure fairness for urban areas and make sure families have the support and resources they need to succeed. Edwards' urban agenda would:
 Edwards will build the new energy economy and create green collar jobs, enact smarter trade policies, strength labor laws, and invest in innovation and ingenuity.
 Edwards will prepare every child to succeed through quality preschool and early childhood education programs. He will raise pay for teachers in successful high poverty schools and radically overhaul No Child Left Behind. Edwards will invest more in low-income children, put us on a path to fully funding special education, and raise graduation rates with adolescent literacy programs and Second Chance schools for former dropouts.
 Edwards will expand affordable housing by creating a million new housing vouchers, revitalize devastated neighborhoods, take steps to end predatory lending, and strengthen enforcement of fair housing laws.
 Edwards has outlined a Working Society initiative to lift 12 million Americans out of poverty in a decade and end poverty within a generation by creating one million stepping stone jobs, making work pay by increasing the minimum wage, helping families save through a new low-income tax credit, and supporting responsible families.
 Edwards will put more cops on the beat and help ex-offenders undertake productive, law-abiding lives with literacy education and drug treatment, stepping stone jobs, and voting rights in federal elections. He will also ban racial profiling in law enforcement while supporting efforts to reform mandatory minimum sentences and alternatives to imprisonment.
For more information on Edwards' agenda for urban America, please see the attached policy paper.
"Cities are the centers of American life, but they are also sites of the most concentrated inequalities in America. Our cities need a helping hand so they can continue to rise with better jobs, better schools, and a higher quality of life." – John Edwards
Metropolitan areas are the center of our nation's economic and cultural activity. The largest 100 cities and their surrounding areas make up just 12 percent of the nation's land mass but produce 75 percent of America's economic output. Today, however, many cities are struggling. The middle class is shrinking in many central cities. Urban schools struggle to attract teachers and suffer high dropout rates. Nearly every big city has very poor neighborhoods, often disproportionately black and Latino, that isolate residents from jobs and good schools. [Brookings, 2007; Berube and Katz, 2005]
Today, John Edwards released his "Cities Rising" agenda to revitalize America's cities. It includes his ideas for how he will strengthen cities and their surrounding areas by creating more good jobs, strengthening schools, expanding affordable housing, ending poverty, and addressing violent crime.
In America today, families are working harder to get by. Over the last 20 years, American incomes have grown apart: 40 percent of the income growth in the 1980s and 1990s went to the top 1 percent.
The middle-class is eroding in cities, while the percentage of the urban population that is high-income and low-income is growing. [EPI, 2006; Brookings 2007]
Every child should have a chance to get a great education, a commitment that is at the core of John Edwards' plan to build One America where everyone has a chance to succeed. But more than 50 years after Brown v. Board of Education, we still have two school systems that are separate and unequal. Many urban schools are hamstrung by a lack of funding and inability to attract good new teachers. American teenagers – particularly black and Hispanic students – trail their international competitors, and these gaps are most evident in high schools in the nation's largest urban and older suburban school systems, dozens of which fail to graduate even two-thirds of their students. [Brookings, 2007]
In central cities, homeownership is half the national average. Nearly 6 million Americans live in neighborhoods of concentrated poverty inside big cities. Nearly every big city has at least one very poor neighborhood – including 46 of the largest 50 cities – and they often include a racial as well as economic dimension. These neighborhoods isolate willing workers from entry-level jobs and children from good schools. [Berube and Katz, 2005]
More than 37 million Americans live in poverty. Poverty rates are increasing in nearly half of large cities, a higher share than in suburbs, and child poverty is rising even more quickly in these areas. Edwards has outlined a Working Society initiative to lift 12 million Americans out of poverty in a decade and end poverty within a generation. [Census Bureau, 2007; Berube and Kneebone, 2006]
Violent crime increased in 2006 for the second year in a row, reversing a long trend of lowering crime. Violent crime in metropolitan counties grew by 3 percent and murder in those counties grew by 6 percent. Urban households also suffer higher rates of property crimes. [AP, 6/2/2007; FBI, 2007; BJS, 2005]