 This World AIDS Day, the U.S. Government is highlighting the important role of faith- and community-based organizations in the global fight against HIV/AIDS. The President and Mrs. Bush will discuss the global response to HIV/AIDS with U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator Mark Dybul, members of local churches involved with volunteer efforts in AIDS-afflicted countries, and faith-based organizations partnering with the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Starting today, the White House will display the red ribbon for two days on the North Portico to represent the continued battle against HIV/AIDS and to affirm the matchless value of every life.
. This center partners with Emergency Plan and faith-based caregivers to serve more than 150 patients. Mrs. Bush and Jenna Bush visited the center in June to listen to a choir of orphans who receive care at the center.
 PEPFAR is the largest international health initiative ever dedicated to a single disease.
 With full implementation of the "Partnership Compact" model proposed by the President, maintenance of the successful grassroots collaborations with faith-based groups, and a continued emphasis on preventing infection through behavioral changes, live saving progress will continue. If Congress appropriates the funds, the next phase of the American people's commitment to those suffering from HIV/AIDS will support:
 PEPFAR works with partners in host nations to support local capacity and to sustain prevention, treatment, and care efforts long after the initial five years of the Emergency Plan. Over 80 percent of PEPFAR partners are indigenous organizations, including faith-and community-based organizations.
 These organizations are uniquely positioned to promote HIV/AIDS stigma reduction and prevention messages, as well as to provide counseling and testing, home care, clinical services, and antiretroviral treatment. These attributes make their partnership a valuable asset in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
 In addition to the balanced, evidenced-based ABC (Abstain, Be faithful, and the correct and consistent use of Condoms) approach, the U.S. supports programs that address mother-to-child transmission, blood safety and safe medical injections, male circumcision, injecting drug users, HIV-discordant couples, alcohol abuse, and other key issues, including gender-specific programs.
 President Bush made the Fund's founding contribution, and the United States has pledged approximately $3 billion and contributed approximately $2.5 billion to date – far more than any other nation.
 
 
 Because the President considers the participation of people living with HIV/AIDS a critical element in the global HIV/AIDS response, he directed the Secretary of State to request and the Secretary of Homeland Security to initiate a rulemaking to propose this waiver on World AIDS Day 2006. A 1993 law prohibits HIV-positive people from receiving visas to visit the United States without a waiver. A categorical waiver will enable HIV-positive people to enter the United States for short visits through a streamlined process.
 Each year, about half of new transmissions are spread by individuals unaware they are infecting others. The number of AIDS cases is especially high in the African-American, Hispanic, and gay communities, as well as among injecting drug users and prisoners.
 After reauthorization of the Ryan White Care Act last year, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is already seeing a better focus of Federal resources on life-extending care and improved targeting of resources to address the greatest needs.
 The HHS Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have released guidelines to physicians recommending routine voluntary HIV testing as a part of regular medical care for all people between the ages of 13-64, and annual screening for those at high risk. HHS continues to do extensive outreach to help states put these guidelines into practice.