 – Gov. Mitt Romney (Fox News Radio's "Brian And The Judge," 11/26/07)
 GOV. MITT ROMNEY: "I think he's found himself having to stand up and explain why it is that we ought to make him the nominee when he's very much like Hillary Clinton. He's pro-choice like Hillary Clinton. He's pro-gay civil union like Hillary Clinton. He's pro-sanctuary cities like she is, and the record of ethical conduct, particularly with someone like Bernie Kerik in the administration, reminds us of the Hillary Clinton era. So he's got some challenges, and I understand that." (Fox News Radio's "Brian And The Judge," 11/26/07)
 
 
 GIULIANI: " 
 I think you have to ultimately not put a woman in jail for that, and I think ultimately you have to leave that to a disagreement of conscience and you have to respect the choice that somebody makes." (Fox News' "Hannity And Colmes," 2/5/07)
 "When it comes to each woman's ability to make the most personal of life decisions, Hillary has stood firm as an advocate for a woman's right to choose. ... She spoke out forcefully against the Supreme Court's April 2007 decision that -- for the first time in decades -- failed to recognize the importance of women's health." (Hillary For President Website, 
, Accessed 6/12/07)
 "Mr. Giuliani's strong support among abortion rights advocates had been one of the obstacles Mrs. Clinton faced in mounting a campaign against the moderate Republican mayor. Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton hold essentially identical positions on abortion. ... When Mr. Giuliani was the Republican candidate, Mrs. Clinton's advisers had expressed concern about the extent to which she would be able to campaign on the issue of abortion, a subject that has proved to be highly effective for Democrats running statewide in New York." (Adam Nagourney, "Abortion Rights Group Is Set To Endorse Mrs. Clinton," 
, 5/25/00)
 GIULIANI: "I agree that marriage should be between a man and a woman. I supported civil unions, however, partnerships, and I signed that legislation when I was mayor of New York City." (MSNBC's "Hardball," 10/13/04)
- 
 GIULIANI: "I signed the law in New York City that created civil unions and I signed the second one that strengthened it, because I believe that we shouldn't discriminate against gays and lesbians." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 8/29/04)
Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 "'The reality is that they are here, and they're going to remain here,' Mr. Giuliani said of the children. 'The choice becomes for a city what do you do? Allow them to stay on the streets or allow them to be educated? The preferred choice from the point of view of New York City is to be educated.'" (Eric Schmitt, "Giuliani Criticizes G.O.P. And Dole On Immigration," 
, 6/7/96)
 "Back on track regarding the subject of illegal immigration Giuliani said, 'The policies that I utilized with regard to illegal immigration (in New York City) were, in the context of overall policies, probably were the most successful in the history of the country in creating an orderly, legal, lawful society.'" (Jan Simmonds, "Giuliani On Why He Can End Illegal Immigration, Why Others Can't," ABC News' Political Radar Blog, 
, Posted 11/19/07)
 MSNBC's TIM RUSSERT: "But you would allow the sanctuary cities to disobey the federal law?" SEN. CLINTON: "Well, I don't think there is any choice." (MSNBC, Democratic Presidential Candidate Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)