 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Take Charge." The ad highlights Governor Romney's record of enforcing our immigration laws and opposing efforts to increase the benefits for illegal immigration. As President, Governor Romney will work to secure our border, reform our immigration system and fight sanctuary policies.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation today in Iowa and New Hampshire. Script and viewing links are below.
 "Illegal immigration – we need smart, tough solutions, not just talk.
"What will it take to fix it? Technology, new ideas, guts, values – Mitt Romney.
"He said no to driver's licenses for illegals; no to in-state tuition; fought for English in the classroom.
"The only candidate with a proven record of fixing the big problems.
"From day one: Mitt Romney will do what he does best – take charge, demand results, no excuses."
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
 
 "Illegal immigration – we need smart, tough solutions, not just talk. What will it take to fix it? Technology, new ideas, guts, values – Mitt Romney. He said no to driver's licenses for illegals; no to in-state tuition; fought for English in the classroom."
 "'Those who are here illegally should not receive tacit support from our government that gives an indication of legitimacy,' the governor said, echoing arguments that opponents have voiced in the Commonwealth and in other states considering similar license measures. 'If they are here illegally, they should not get driver's licenses,' he said." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Romney Stand Dims Chances Of License For Undocumented," 
, 10/28/03)
 "Romney also vetoed a number of outside sections of the budget, including:...A plan that would have permitted illegal aliens to pay the same in-state tuition rate at our public colleges and universities as Massachusetts citizens." (Office Of The Governor, "Romney Signs $22.402B Fiscal Year 2005 'No New Tax' Budget," Press Release, 6/25/04)
 "I hate the idea of in any way making it more difficult for kids, even those who are illegal aliens, to afford college in our state. ... But equally, perhaps a little more than equally, I do not want to create an incentive to do something which is illegal." (Scott S. Greenberger and Raphael Lewis, "Romney Vetoes $108.5M In Budget," 
 
, 6/26/04)
 "But yesterday, Romney press secretary Shawn Feddeman said the governor will fight all attempts to slow the implementation of English immersion, known on the ballot as Question 2. ... 'He will veto anything that weakens or delays English immersion,' Feddeman said." (Anand Vaishnav, "Romney Firm On English Timetable," 
, 1/24/03)
 "The only candidate with a proven record of fixing the big problems. From day one: Mitt Romney will do what he does best – take charge, demand results, no excuses." 
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approve this message."
 CNN's RHONDA SCHAFFLER: "Romney had a solid reputation in the business community for turning companies around, like Staples, Domino's Pizza and the Sports Authority." (CNN's "Business Unusual," 1/27/02)
 "Romney took over as head of Salt Lake's Olympic organizing committee in February 1999 after it was revealed Salt Lake organizers doled out more than $1 million in cash and gifts to members of the International Olympic Committee to win the 2002 bid. Under Romney's leadership, the Games were lauded as a critical success, a model of post-Sept. 11 security and turned a $100 million profit. Romney, a successful venture capitalist before the Games, wrote a book after titled 'Turnaround: Crisis, Leadership and the Olympic Games.'" (Debbie Hummel, "Utah's 'Adopted Son' Returns To State For Presidential Fundraiser," 
, 2/21/07)
 "When Mitt Romney became governor of Massachusetts in 2003, the state had a budget gap of almost $3 billion and was losing thousands of jobs a month. In Mr. Romney's four-year tenure, the deficit was eliminated without raising the sales tax or the income tax, and since the labor slump hit bottom in December 2003, the state has gained 81,000 jobs." (Pam Belluck, "Romney Candidacy Puts Massachusetts Economy In Spotlight," 
, 3/16/07)
 "As governor, Romney has scored another turnaround, conservative in both ends and means. Told during the campaign that he would inherit a deficit of between $500 million and $1.5 billion, Romney discovered upon taking office a $650 million deficit in fiscal 2003 and an anticipated one of $3 billion in fiscal 2004. Romney balanced the 2003 budget, and he finished 2004 with a $700 million surplus. A reviving economy helped, but Romney didn't tax or borrow, and he reduced spending through government consolidation and reform." (Terry Eastland, "In 2008, Will It Be Mormon In America?" 
, 6/6/05)
 