 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 There is much our nation should do to strengthen our values and our families because our future is determined not just by heads of state but also by heads of households. As President, Governor Romney will ensure that Washington stands alongside parents who are building stronger families.
 The source of most of society's social problems can be traced to a breakdown of values and families. New Hampshire is wealthier, healthier and stronger when it has strong families.
 Governor Romney believes marriage is primarily about the development and nurturing of children. Every child deserves a mother and a father.
 Today, a single mother with child care who marries the father of her child can lose as much as $6,000 a year in government benefits. Their combined incomes can disqualify them for Medicaid, housing vouchers, food stamps, and welfare. It is time to make fathers responsible for their child's health and care. Furthermore, we need to end the tax penalty on married couples.
 We must clean up the culture that surrounds our children in New Hampshire and across the country. As President, Governor Romney will work to ensure that every home computer has an easy to engage pornography filter so that parents can protect their children.
 Predators who use the Internet to sexually assault children will be subject to a new "One Strike, You're Ours" law of imposing long prison sentences followed by lifetime GPS tracking. According to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, as of April 2007, there were nearly 3,716 convicted sex offenders in New Hampshire.
 We can do a better job educating our kids on the perils of drug use. Parents may be the best anti-drug there is.
 Governor Romney believes in school choice and that every child should have an equal opportunity to have a good education.
- 
 According to the New Hampshire Department of Education, more than 4,500 students are in Home Education Programs in the state.
 He has proposed a middle-class tax-free savings program for every New Hampshire family earning $200,000 a year or less. Under his plan, the tax rate on interest, dividends and capital gains will be zero.
 Using proven, free-market principles, Governor Romney's plan will ensure every citizen has health insurance, without new taxes, a government-run HillaryCare style system or socialized medicine. In Massachusetts, Governor Romney put conservative principles to work and the number of uninsured has been cut in half.
- 
 More than 128,000 people are uninsured. For those with insurance, the average annual individual health insurance premium is $3,134. In 2004 alone, nearly $7.1 billion was spent on health care by people in New Hampshire.
 
 
 Governor Romney has proposed a detailed conservative blueprint to lower taxes that includes making the Bush tax cuts permanent, rolling back tax rates across the board for all Americans, eliminating the Death Tax, eliminating taxes on the savings of middle-income Americans, opposing Social Security tax increases, making medical expenses tax deductible and making our corporate tax rate more competitive with the rest of the world.
 This White House Summit will be a springboard to develop new initiatives to strengthen families across the country.
 To keep government from doing things that hurt and weaken families, President Ronald Reagan issued an Executive Order requiring that new government policies and programs be subject to the Family Impact Statement. However, President Clinton rescinded this Executive Order. Governor Romney will reinstate the Family Impact Statement and initiate an audit of all current programs and policies which may negatively impact families.
- 
 The work of being a parent is hard enough without the government making it harder.
 As President, Governor Romney will ensure that his Attorney General defends the free exercise of religion. The United States is a nation under God and should remain that way.
 The First Family represents America to the world and represents America to our children and grandchildren. As President, Governor Romney's family will live up to a higher standard and always try to make the American people proud.
 Governor Romney will appoint and fight for judges who follow the law and Constitution, who understand judicial restraint and will not legislate from the bench. As President, Governor Romney will promote pro-life polices. He will oppose taxpayer-funded abortion, partial-birth abortion, abortion in military clinics and funding of abortion in international aid programs. He will work to ban embryonic cloning. He will work to increase adoptions by making the adoption tax credit permanent and raising awareness about embryonic adoption, or snowflake babies.
To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.