 (Adam Nagourney, "Mayor And Mrs. Clinton Woo Liberal Party," 
, 5/7/00)


 I Travel South And West, I'm Seen As Very Liberal. I Like That, Actually." "When Mr. Giuliani was asked yesterday whether he considered Mrs. Clinton a liberal, he demurred. 'I think it would be overly simplistic to put labels on people,' he said. 'I think you can say somebody is a liberal on something and moderate on something else and conservative on something else.' Turning the question to himself, Mr. Giuliani said: 'I think about me, they would say, he's conservative on economic matters, he's conservative on law and order. But he's moderate, and possibly even liberal, on social issues. It would depend on the part of the country you're in. In New York City, I'm often seen as very conservative. 
.'" (Adam Nagourney, "Mayor And Mrs. Clinton Woo Liberal Party," 
, 5/7/00)
 "Rudy Giuliani came out yesterday against President Bush's call for a ban on gay marriage. The former mayor ... made clear he disagrees with Bush's proposal to rewrite the Constitution to outlaw gays and lesbians from tying the knot. 'I don't think it's ripe for decision at this point,' he said on NBC's 'Meet the Press.' 'I certainly wouldn't support [a ban] at this time,' added Giuliani, who lived with a gay Manhattan couple when he moved out of Gracie Mansion during his nasty divorce." (James Gordon, "Rudy Opposes Gay Nups Ban," [New York] 
, 3/8/04)
 SEN. CLINTON: "When you and I were plotting strategy to beat the Federal Marriage Amendment, the reason we were plotting strategy is, we were worried it was going to pass." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 GIULIANI: "I agree that marriage should be between a man and a woman. I supported civil unions, however, partnerships, and I signed that legislation when I was mayor of New York City." (MSNBC's "Hardball," 10/13/04)
 GIULIANI: "I signed the law in New York City that created civil unions and I signed the second one that strengthened it, because I believe that we shouldn't discriminate against gays and lesbians." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 8/29/04)
 (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 PBS' CHARLIE ROSE: "So when the president says we need a constitutional amendment, you say on this one, Mr. President, you and I are different." GIULIANI: "I disagree on that. I don't think there's a necessity for a constitutional amendment. 
, reflecting basically what the opinion in that state is, or city, like it was in New York, way back when this was kind of a unique thing to do, to have domestic partnerships." (PBS' "The Charlie Rose Show," 3/25/04)
 "'The states have always determined age of marriage, other conditions and over time we've gotten rid a lot of discrimination that used to exist in marriage laws,' [Clinton] said. 'That's now happening. People are making decisions. Civil unions, marriage. They're deciding in the states and I think that's the appropriate place for that to be.'" (Amy Lorentzen, "Presidential Candidates Focus On Gay Marriage After Iowa Ruling," 
, 9/1/07)
 GIULIANI: " 
 I think you have to ultimately not put a woman in jail for that, and I think ultimately you have to leave that to a disagreement of conscience and you have to respect the choice that somebody makes." (Fox News' "Hannity And Colmes," 2/5/07)
 "When it comes to each woman's ability to make the most personal of life decisions, Hillary has stood firm as an advocate for a woman's right to choose. ... She spoke out forcefully against the Supreme Court's April 2007 decision that -- for the first time in decades -- failed to recognize the importance of women's health." (Hillary For President Website, 
, Accessed 6/12/07)
 "Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, said yesterday that 'her group won't take sides in the race because both likely candidates are abortion-rights advocates.' Michelman said, 'We will not be choosing one over the other. She has been a strong advocate of a woman's right to choose and he has been extraordinarily strong as well.'" (Ron Fournier, 
, 6/7/99)
 "Mr. Giuliani's strong support among abortion rights advocates had been one of the obstacles Mrs. Clinton faced in mounting a campaign against the moderate Republican mayor. Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton hold essentially identical positions on abortion. ... When Mr. Giuliani was the Republican candidate, Mrs. Clinton's advisers had expressed concern about the extent to which she would be able to campaign on the issue of abortion, a subject that has proved to be highly effective for Democrats running statewide in New York." (Adam Nagourney, "Abortion Rights Group Is Set To Endorse Mrs. Clinton," 
, 5/25/00)