 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest radio ad, "Stronger Economy." The ad highlights Governor Romney's call to cut spending in Washington and lower taxes on the American people. Governor Romney has a record of fiscal leadership in Massachusetts and he was the first presidential candidate to sign the "Taxpayer Protection Pledge" to oppose any effort to increase taxes.
The ad will begin airing as part of the campaign's rotation tomorrow in Iowa. Script and viewing links are below.
 "Governor Mitt Romney on controlling wasteful spending and lowering burdensome taxes."
 "I saw the potential of economic conservatism when I became governor. Our state budget was $3 billion short. Liberals wanted to raise taxes, but I cut government instead.
"I eliminated and combined duplicative agencies and programs, and I balanced the budget 4 years in a row."
 "As president Mitt Romney will audit Washington top to bottom. Mitt will cap non-defense spending- a bold plan that'll save $300 billion in 10 years."
 "We have an opportunity to really make a change in this country.
"I'm going to cut spending. I'm going to cut taxes.
"Lower marginal tax rates for all Americans."
 "And Mitt Romney is the first candidate to take the tax pledge."
 "I signed the tax pledge because I want everyone to know where I stand. We've got to get taxes down and grow our economy."
 "A stronger economy? Vote Mitt Romney for President."
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
 "Paid for by Romney for President. MittRomney.com"
 
 "Governor Mitt Romney on controlling wasteful spending and lowering burdensome taxes." GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I saw the potential of economic conservatism when I became governor. Our state budget was $3 billion short. Liberals wanted to raise taxes, but I cut government instead. I eliminated and combined duplicative agencies and programs, and I balanced the budget 4 years in a row."
 "When Mitt Romney became governor of Massachusetts in 2003, the state had a budget gap of almost $3 billion and was losing thousands of jobs a month. In Mr. Romney's four-year tenure, the deficit was eliminated without raising the sales tax or the income tax, and since the labor slump hit bottom in December 2003, the state has gained 81,000 jobs." (Pam Belluck, "Romney Candidacy Puts Massachusetts Economy In Spotlight," The 
, 3/16/07)
 "Governor Romney receives credit for actual spending in FY 2003, even though he entered office halfway into the fiscal year, because of the tremendous spending cuts he forced down the Legislature's throat in January of 2003. Facing a $650 million deficit he inherited from the previous administration, Romney convinced the unfriendly State Legislature to grant him unilateral power to make budget cuts and unveiled $343 million in cuts to cities, healthcare, and state agencies. This fiscal discipline continued in 2004, in which Romney continued to slash 'nearly every part of state government' to close a $3 billion deficit." (The Club For Growth, "Mitt Romney's Record On Economic Issues," Press Release, 8/21/07)
 "As governor, Romney has scored another turnaround, conservative in both ends and means. Told during the campaign that he would inherit a deficit of between $500 million and $1.5 billion, Romney discovered upon taking office a $650 million deficit in fiscal 2003 and an anticipated one of $3 billion in fiscal 2004. Romney balanced the 2003 budget, and he finished 2004 with a $700 million surplus. A reviving economy helped, but Romney didn't tax or borrow, and he reduced spending through government consolidation and reform." (Terry Eastland, "In 2008, Will It Be Mormon In America?" 
, 6/6/05)
 "To his credit, Romney attempted to cut down on government spending by streamlining many duplicative and wasteful elements of Beacon Hill. ... Governor Romney successfully consolidated the social service and public health bureaucracy and restructured the Metropolitan District Commission. Romney even eliminated half of the executive branch's press positions, saving $1.2 million. " (The Club For Growth, "Mitt Romney's Record On Economic Issues," Press Release, 8/21/07)
 "As president Mitt Romney will audit Washington top to bottom. Mitt will cap non-defense spending- a bold plan that'll save $300 billion in 10 years."
 He will veto any non-defense appropriations bill that grows spending at a rate greater than inflation minus one percent (CPI-1%). This should be considered the minimum amount of spending reductions. This will save $300 billion over 10 years. (Romney For President, "Strategy For A Stronger America: A Conservative Blueprint To Restrain Government Spending," Press Release, 11/15/07)
 His administration will undertake an exhaustive review of each individual federal program with the goal to eliminate and consolidate programs that are no longer useful or are bureaucratic and unwieldy. Federal spending programs do not have a right to immortality, and should not enjoy automatic increases year after year. (Romney For President, "Strategy For A Stronger America: A Conservative Blueprint To Restrain Government Spending," Press Release, 11/15/07)
 "There is a need to engage in a fundamental review, reprioritization, and reengineering of the base of government. Aligning the federal government to meet the challenges and capitalize on the opportunities of the 21st century will require a fundamental review of what the federal government does, how it does it, and how it is financed. Many of the federal government's current policies, programs, functions, and activities are based on conditions that existed decades ago, are not results-based, and are not well aligned with 21st century realities." (General Accounting Office, "Fiscal Stewardship: A Critical Challenge Facing Our Nation," Report, January 2007)
 "We have an opportunity to really make a change in this country. I'm going to cut spending. I'm going to cut taxes. Lower marginal tax rates for all Americans."
 As President, Governor Romney will cut marginal tax rates across the board, allowing all Americans to save more money. This approach is fair, simple and extends the pro-growth benefits of tax rate cuts to all Americans. (Romney For President, "Strategy For A Stronger America: A Conservative Blueprint To Lower Taxes," Press Release, 10/4/07)
 (Donald Lambro, Op-Ed, "Party Divide Wide On The Economy," 
, 10/7/07)
 (Deborah Solomon And Sarah Lueck, "Democrats Outline Tax Approach," 
, 9/19/07)
 (Lisa Wangsness, "Romney Calls For Tax Cuts On Savings," 
, 9/8/07)
 
 
 
 
 "Still, Mr. Romney is tough on spending, maybe even better than Reagan, and promises to slay big government with aggressive use of his veto." (Donald Lambro, "In Search Of The Right Candidate," 
, 10/18/07)
 "And Mitt Romney is the first candidate to take the tax pledge." GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I signed the tax pledge because I want everyone to know where I stand. We've got to get taxes down and grow our economy."
 "Demonstrating his commitment to oppose any effort to increase taxes on the American people, Governor Romney has signed Americans For Tax Reform's 'Taxpayer Protection Pledge.' As part of his pledge, Governor Romney will 'oppose any and all efforts to increase the marginal income tax rates' and 'oppose any net reduction or elimination of deductions and credits.'" (Romney For President Exploratory Committee, "Governor Mitt Romney Signs 'Taxpayer Protection Pledge'," Press Release, 1/4/07)
 
 GROVER NORQUIST: "Governor Mitt Romney was the first candidate to sign the pledge then all the other candidates, including some of the second-tier candidates, have signed the pledge. The one candidate who's not yet, or two candidates who've not yet signed the pledge, are Rudy Giuliani and Senator McCain. Senator McCain did sign it when he ran in 2000, so it's a little disappointing that he hasn't signed it in 2008. Giuliani's people have said he's likely to sign it, but it hasn't happened yet." CNBC's ERIN BURNETT: "And Fred Thompson hasn't signed it because of course he's not technically running?" NORQUIST: "Correct. He has not – he's not yet announced." (CNBC's "Street Signs," 8/29/07)
 "A stronger economy? Vote Mitt Romney for President." GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message." ANNOUNCER: "Paid for by Romney for President. MittRomney.com"
: 