 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Ensuring that Washington state's economy is strong and competitive depends on leadership in our nation's capital that will embark on an effort for domestic change and open international markets for American products.
 Over the past 30 years, Washington State's exports have contributed to nearly one-half of the state's new jobs. In all, one of out every three jobs in the state is tied to trade. In 2006, aerospace-related commodities were Washington's leading merchandise export worth a total of $33 billion. Furthermore, almost one fourth of Washington's exports are attributed to the software industry, which depends on strong Intellectual Property Rights enforcement abroad. By opening up markets to American goods and strengthening enforcement to ensure other nations play by the rules, we will open up additional markets for Washington State's exporters and fuel new jobs.
 According to the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Census Bureau, the state's merchandise exports per capita was $8,298.40.
 The Doha Round and free trade agreements can be huge opportunities for Washington State if we ensure no unilateral disarmament on agriculture and demand that they provide strong benefits for farmers and companies across Washington State.
 Helping Washington State succeed in the global economy means we must enforce our current agreements. Governor Romney's vision for expanding trade includes stronger: enforcement efforts abroad; U.S. and multilateral efforts to stop currency manipulation by China and others; action against intellectual property rights theft; negotiations to open markets for services; and building food, safety and other standards to protect Americans but stop illegitimate efforts to stop U.S. exports.
 We need bold ideas to address the new global economy. Starting with a core of U.S. free trade agreement partners, Governor Romney would seek to bring together nations committed to open markets and playing by the rules in the largest ever Free Trade Area, and go beyond traditional trade to promote high standards in areas critical to U.S. competitiveness. The Reagan Zone Of Economic Freedom would act as an alliance working together internally, in the World Trade Organization and elsewhere to push reforms and work cooperatively in areas like labor and the environment. Governor Romney would seek to expand these efforts to include the European Union and other nations that agree to meet these standards, while challenging China and others advancing agreements that exclude America.
 Denying America the ability to negotiate to open markets while our competitors gain advantages is no strategy. Rejecting negotiations to drive open markets will harm Washington State's workers, farmers, companies and small businesses, as our competitors move forward.
 We cannot afford to fall behind as China and others cut deals that hurt American exports and jobs. There are already over 300 agreements in the world that do not include the United States and place U.S. exports at a disadvantage.
 Governor Romney will ensure that we maintain the ability to defend our homeland security while expanding legitimate trade and concluding and thoroughly enforcing deals that benefit America.
 Governor Romney believes in giving American and Washington State workers the tools they need to succeed and prosper in the new economy. To accomplish this goal, Governor Romney will:
 These self-managed accounts will give workers the opportunity to take control of their own futures by getting the training and education they need to succeed in the new economy. The accounts may be used for a broad variety of different training and educational opportunities, including those provided by community colleges or businesses that hire these workers. Best of all, these accounts will take money out of the hands of bureaucrats and put it into the hands of those who really need it – displaced workers.
 Governor Romney will initiate an audit of all existing worker training and educational programs to ensure that workers are being helped most efficiently, while eliminating duplicative spending and minimizing bureaucratic overhead. He will also create true "one-stop-shops" that make it easier for workers to get access to the benefits, training, and educational opportunities they need to find jobs in the new economy.