Today in Knoxville, IA, Hillary Clinton offered a serious assessment of the economic challenges facing our country, outlined her plan to restore the middle class, and called for specific steps to reduce foreclosures and help families manage skyrocketing energy bills this winter. As President, one of Hillary's top priorities will be to responsibly manage our economic challenges in the face of deepening anxiety about our economic outlook. Most importantly, she will be ready to lead on economic issues on day one of her Presidency and will focus on rebuilding America's middle class.
"The next president will be a steward of our economy at a time when the bills from eight years of neglect and mismanagement will be coming due. He – or she – will have to turn our nation and our economy around," Clinton said.
"More than ever before, our workers will need good job training for the jobs of this new century. But we can't afford on-the-job training for our next president. That could be the costliest job training in history. Every day spent learning the ropes is another day of rising costs, mounting deficits and growing anxiety for our families. And they cannot afford to keep waiting.
"My plan to turn our economy around has four components: creating the new, good jobs essential to broad-based prosperity; restoring fairness to our economy; renewing the basic bargain that if you work hard, you can get ahead; and putting our fiscal house in order again.
I will help create opportunity for those left out during the Bush years while shifting the cost of the changes we need to those special interests that have gotten a free ride."
Adding to her detailed plans to help rebuild the middle class, Hillary called for immediate action to help families fight foreclosures and pay their skyrocketing energy bills:
Double the budget of HUD's Housing Counseling Assistance Program and make an additional $100 million immediately available; Convene a "crisis conference" of housing stakeholders to stop the spike in foreclosures; Implement a Crash Home Conservation Initiative for 3 Million Families; Increase emergency energy assistance funding help more than 1 million additional families. ###
 There have been 1.6 million foreclosure filings so far this year, and that figure is expected to climb as adjustable rate mortgages reset. The Bush administration failed to act while the evidence mounted that unscrupulous brokers and lenders were qualifying people for houses they could not afford. Also, home prices are declining nationwide. One housing expert has estimated that the downturn in housing could erase $3 trillion in household wealth. [Alex Pollock, "The Subprime Lending Disaster and the Threat to the Broader Economy," Testimony to the U.S. House Joint Economic Committee, September 18, 2007]. With wages stagnant, families had turned to the equity in their homes to cover the cost of college tuition and medical bills. But now that equity is declining, and the consequences are significant. As home prices fall, consumer confidence is weakening and it is increasingly difficult for homeowners to refinance costly mortgages.
 For seven years, the Bush Administration has outsourced energy policy to Dick Cheney and the oil companies, and blocked efforts to improve energy efficiency. Today, as the price of oil moves toward $100 a barrel, we are even more dependent on imported oil than we were on 9/11. [DOE, Energy Information Agency, 2007]. And middle-class families are paying the price. The average family is spending roughly $2000 more a year on energy costs – including electricity, home heating and gas – than they were in 2000. 
 Between 2000 and 2006, household income fell nearly $1,000. While productivity is up 18%, wages have stayed flat. According to a report by Goldman Sachs, over the 12-month period that ended in July of last year, the slow growth in wages for labor accounted for 64% of the increase in corporate profits. The Bush Administration defends the current labor market because the unemployment rate is at a reasonable 4.7%. But that masks the fact that labor participation has fallen to near historic lows, as millions of people have simply stopped looking for work. If labor force participation were the same today as it was in January 2001, the unemployment rate would be 6.7%.
 President Bush has overseen the most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history. Reckless tax cuts and bloated spending have driven our national debt up 60% since 2000 to $9.1 trillion. Now the dollar is declining and confidence in our economy is eroding.
As President, Hillary Clinton will be a responsible steward of the economy and address the challenges facing the middle class. Hillary has laid out her economic blueprint for the 21st century, a comprehensive agenda that
Hillary has announced detailed plans to address the housing crisis and to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Today she announced steps that the President must immediately take to help families fight foreclosures and pay their skyrocketing energy bills:
These steps build on Hillary's existing plans to reduce foreclosures, reduce or dependence on foreign oil, and combat global warming, which includes: