The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 3043 because it includes an irresponsible and excessive level of spending and contains other objectionable provisions. Furthermore, in a cynical effort to gain enactment of its unwarranted domestic funding levels, this flawed bill has been combined with a bill that provides needed funding for veterans. Funding for the nation's veterans should not be held hostage while Congress attempts to add billions in unrelated spending that has nothing to do with the needs of the men and women in uniform who have bravely protected our country. 
.
Alternatively, Congress should separately send the President the Military Construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill now for his signature.
The Congress still has not completed its work on any of the twelve annual appropriations bills – even though the new fiscal year began more than a month ago. Spending bills should be sent to the President one at a time and in a fiscally responsible way, starting with funding for our troops and veterans. Funding for our nation's veterans and our troops in combat should not fall victim to Congress' posturing for more spending at taxpayers' expense.
The President is committed to fiscal discipline. His budget shows that by restraining the growth in spending, a balanced budget can be achieved by 2012, while keeping taxes low on families and small businesses. The Administration has made clear since the beginning of the appropriations process that the President will veto bills that exceed his reasonable and responsible levels for discretionary spending.
Even though proposed discretionary spending would grow at a rate of 6.9 percent under the President's Budget, lawmakers are on a path to spend $22 billion more than the President proposed, and almost $10 billion of that increase is a result of the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education provisions of this combined bill. Despite the Administration's clear communication of its objections, Congress has refused to set priorities within this topline.
Additionally, this bill proposes to spend nearly $3.2 billion for 56 programs in the Departments of Education, Labor and Health and Human Services that the President's Budget proposed to terminate. These programs are duplicative, narrowly focused, or are not producing results. In addition, this bill reduces funding for key priorities that have proven to be effective. As an example, from 2004-2006, low-income students enrolled in Reading First Schools posted an 11 point improvement in reading proficiency. Congress has chosen to reward this program's success with a 61 percent cut in funding.
Finally, this bill includes more than 2,200 earmarks, including earmarked funds for aviation and prison museums. The President has called on Congress to reform the earmarking process that has led to wasteful and unnecessary spending. Specifically, he called on Congress to provide greater transparency and full disclosure of earmarks, to put them in the language of the bill itself, and to cut the cost and number by at least half. The Administration opposes any efforts to shield earmarks from public scrutiny and urges Congress to bring full transparency to the earmarking process, to eliminate wasteful earmarks, and to cut the cost and number by at least half. This bill also includes more than $4 million for labor unions even as Congress takes steps to cut by $11 million the President's request for the Office of Labor Management Standards, an office dedicated to eradicating union corruption, protecting dues-paying union members and promoting transparency through audits and review of unions' financial records.
The President is committed to the goals of improving education and addressing health care needs.
Finally, the Administration continues to have objections to specific provisions identified in the Statement of Administration Policy for H.R. 3043 on July 17, 2007 and S. 1710 on October 17, 2007. These statements can be found at 