"As the third-ranking member of the Reagan Justice Department, Rudy Giuliani earned a reputation as one of the most skillful, efficient and effective executives in the Reagan Administration. His intelligence, energy, creativity and vision enabled him successfully to manage the massive responsibilities that come with being Associate Attorney General. The talents he brought to and developed at DOJ are precisely the skills that later made Rudy an enormously successful and influential United States Attorney and Mayor, and will make him one of the greatest Presidents ever to serve this nation."
- Former Solicitor General Ted Olson


 (Josh Barbanel, "Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani," The New York Times, 10/11/89)
 (Gordon Mott, "Rudy Giuliani: America's Mayor," Cigar Aficionado, 11/01)
 ("Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
 (Sallyann Jacobson, "Legal Eagle Swoops On The Mafia Bosses," The Advertiser, 11/8/86)
 (United States Department Of Justice Website, 
, Accessed 11/2/07)
 (Jeffrey Smith et al., "Documents Show Roberts Influence In Reagan Era," The Washington Post, 7/27/05)
 (David Kirkpatrick, "Two Legal Careers That Diverged May Intertwine Again," The New York Times, 1/9/06)
 Agencies included: the Executive Office Of U.S. Attorneys and All 94 U.S. Attorney Offices, The Pardon Attorney, Drug Enforcement Administration, Immigration And Naturalization Service, Board Of Immigration Appeals, Bureau Of Prisons, U.S. Marshals Service, U.S. Parole Commission, U.S. National Central Bureau Of Interpol, and the Criminal Division, which comprised 92% of DOJ's staff and 85% of its budget. (U.S. Department Of Justice Organizational Chart, 10/14/81; Orr Kelly and Ted Gest, "Reagan Revolution Takes Firm Hold At Justice," U.S. News & World Report, 4/26/82)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To Ambassador Robert Sayre, Chairman Of Interdepartmental Group On Terrorism At U.S. Department Of State, 5/11/82)
 Giuliani: "Recent investigations and cases have revealed several areas where additional legislation is needed to allow the United States to deter or successfully prosecute those who are directly involved in the support of international terrorism." (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To Ambassador Robert Sayre, Chairman Of Interdepartmental Group On Terrorism At U.S. Department Of State, 7/12/82)
 This act established a fund to award persons providing information leading to terrorists' arrest or prevention of attacks. (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To Noel Koch, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary Of Defense, 8/27/82)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To William H. Webster, FBI Director; Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To William Casey, CIA Director)
 (FBI Director William Webster, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 10/7/82)
 In 1976, President Ford's Counterterrorism Working Group Convened A Meeting To Discuss The "Increased Danger Of Major Terrorist Attacks." (Timothy Naftali, Blind Spot: The Secret History Of American Counterterrorism, 2005, p. 92)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
 (Special Assistant To The Associate Attorney General Fred Friedman, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 7/22/81)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To Counsel To President Reagan Fred Fielding, 9/25/81)
 "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And Special Assistant To The Attorney General Hank Habict, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith And Deputy Attorney General Edward Schmults, 5/7/81)
 ("Man In The News; Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
 The committee was organized "to study and report to [the Attorney General] concerning the most effective method for coordinating the efforts of the DEA and FBI." (Rudolph W. Giuliani, et al., "Report And Recommendations," Attorney General's Committee On DEA-FBI Coordination, 11/16/81)
 (Stuart Taylor Jr., "Pentagon Balking At Joining Drug War," The New York Times, 7/4/81)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Letter To Honorable Andre Bossard, Secretary General I.C.P.O.-Interpol, 8/6/81)
 (Hinckley Sequence Of Events Memo To File)
 ("Agents Tracing Hinckley's Path Find A Shift To Violent Emotion," The New York Times, 4/5/81)
 Associate Attorney General Giuliani recommended the Congress should enact legislation to commit dangerously disturbed defendants who are not convicted. (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, Statement Before The National Commission On The Insanity Defense, Arlington, VA, 10/27/82)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Declaration, 7/23/81)
 GIULIANI: "And in a situation where we have enormous ongoing immigration problems, wouldn't that be a terrible waste of our resources and a diversion from the kinds of things that the President has been doing and the Attorney General has been doing over the last six or seven months 
." NEWSCASTER: "Giuliani says the Administration stands behind its policy of deterring those who come to the United States illegally by holding illegals in detention camps, increasing border controls, and implying sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens." (Miami's Channel 10 News, 2/25/82)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Seventh Annual Baron De Hirsh Meyer Lecture Series, Miami, FL, 4/16/82)
 Giuliani: "This country has neglected to enforce our immigration laws. As a result, we have lost control of our borders. This Administration is committed to enforce its laws – firmly and fairly – so that all people who choose to come here, from whatever nation, will do so in accordance with our laws." (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Statement, 6/14/82)
 The group reviewed vacant seats and judicial candidates for the federal courts. In addition, the group dealt with issues such as efforts to obtain names of qualified women candidates for judicial vacancies. (Assistant Attorney General Jonathan Rose, Memo To Department Of Justice Judicial Selection Working Group, 2/1/82; Assistant Attorney General Jonathan Rose, Memo To Department of Justice Judicial Selection Working Group, 4/12/82)
 (Hugh Hewitt Show, 3/1/07)
 "Numerous senior officials who served with him confirm that in addition to daily senior-management meetings with the attorney general, which covered pending nominations, Giuliani attended the Tuesday meetings devoted to judicial selections and nominations. He would present his recommendations for U.S. Attorneys and Marshals but also offer his views on judges." (Jennifer Rubin, "Rudy As Prosecutor," National Review, 4/30/07)