MANCHESTER, NH - On the heels of Senator Clinton's speech delivered last week at the National Forum on Equality, Opportunity and Access in Manchester, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign today announced the endorsement of 26 prominent local disability advocates.
"Hillary Clinton has spent 35 years fighting to ensure that Americans with disabilities are equal under the eyes of the law," said Clyde Terry, CEO of Granite State Independent Living one of the major sponsors of last week's forum. "As an advocate, First Lady, and United States Senator, Hillary has worked to expand access to jobs, education, and health care. The disability community may be invisible to the current administration, but it is not invisible to her."
Senator Clinton has been a strong advocate on behalf of Americans with disabilities. In 2004 she helped write the IDEA Reauthorization Act, to ensure targeted resources are dedicated to teacher training. She also co-sponsored the Community Choice Act, which will eliminate the institutional bias in our Medicare and Medicaid systems.
The Senator fought to investigate the linkages between environmental toxins and disabilities and she has strongly supported the ADA Restoration Act. Hillary has also laid out an agenda to increase employment among people with disabilities. When elected president, Hillary has pledged to reinstate Bill Clinton's executive order that committed the federal government to hiring 100,000 people with disabilities.
She is also committed to doubling the country's investment in work-enabling technologies, by providing more low interest loans for purchasing them. Hillary will work to provide real-time support for employers so they can make the accommodations necessary for their employees to do their jobs and has proposed a $1,000 per worker tax credit to offset the expenses of work and transportation for workers with disabilities.
Hillary will also work to eliminate the disincentives for work that exists with in many federal programs.
"People with disabilities get up every day and pursue their dreams against significant odds," said Senator Clinton. "With the support of these community leaders from throughout New Hampshire, I want to recognize that strength and continue advocating on their behalf."
To read the speech Hillary delivered at the National Forum on Equality, Opportunity and Access, please visit 
.
A complete list of Granite State disability advocates who have endorsed Hillary follows.