 – Today, Senator John Edwards highlighted the service of America's teachers during a community meeting in Charles City, Iowa as part of "American Heroes Week." From Thursday, November 1st through Wednesday, November 7th, Edwards is highlighting his commitment to fighting for the real heroes of America – the men and women whose hard work makes our country great, but who have no voice in Washington.
Nothing is more important to our children's future than America's teachers. While pay for CEOs and other highly paid workers has skyrocketed in recent years, teachers only earn a fraction of the salaries paid to other educated professionals. Edwards believes we need to give teachers the respect and resources they need to succeed. He will stand up for heroes like Dennis Petersen from Charles City, who taught for 35 years, including 27 years as an art teacher at Charles City Junior High, before he retired. He is now substitute teacher whenever he is needed. Edwards has outlined a bold plan to support teachers and restore the promise of America's schools.
"Growing up, I had heroic public school teachers who cared about me, who took an interest in my life, and who taught me the skills I needed to succeed," said Edwards. "Teachers, not tests, are the single most important factor in successful schools. We need to give teachers the pay and respect they deserve. As president, I will support teachers and strengthen our education system, so that every child gets the same great education I received."
"John Edwards speaks to the parts of America that a lot of politicians have forgotten about -- the people who go to work, pay their taxes, and live true American lives," says Petersen. "He listens to the people and understands where they are coming from. He will not forget the average American working person because that is where he comes from, and he will not forget his roots."
Edwards' plan to support America's teachers and restore the promise of America's schools includes:
In May, Edwards introduced an initiative to improve access to higher education by making college more affordable for millions of students. Edwards' College Opportunity Agenda includes a national "College for Everyone" initiative, which would pay for public-college tuition, fees, and books for any student who is willing to work hard and stay out of trouble.
For more information on Edwards' plan to restore the promise of America's schools, please see the fact sheet below.
As the product of public schools in a small rural town and the father of four children who attended public schools, John Edwards understands the importance of education. He believes every child should have the same chance to get a great education – a commitment that is at the core of his plan to build One America where everyone has a chance to succeed. But more than 50 years after Brown v. Board of Education, we still have two school systems that are separate and unequal. No longer legally separated by race, our children are sorted by economics, often with a racial or ethnic dimension. At the same time, our children are preparing for unprecedented global economic competition.
Unfortunately, Washington is letting down our children. George Bush's No Child Left Behind law is not working for schools, teachers and – most importantly – our children, and it needs to be radically overhauled. And Washington is simply not doing its part to invest in early childhood education, teachers, or helping struggling schools. Our students are falling behind in key subjects like math and science, good teachers are leaving the profession, and our graduates aren't as prepared for the global economy as their peers in other countries. Students in poor rural areas and major cities often don't have the same chances as other students, and an achievement gap that falls along economic and racial or ethnic lines undermines the promise of equality.
Today, John Edwards outlined his vision for excellent American schools, based on three principles:
Half of the achievement gap between children from poor families and their more fortunate peers exists before they start school. Quality preschools compensate for the learning opportunities some children miss at home, reducing remedial education, welfare, and crime. Its benefits are strongly supported by academic research and the experience of universal pre-K programs in Georgia and Oklahoma. Children from poor families benefit most from high-quality preschool, but less than half of poor children attend pre-school compared to two-thirds of other children. [Denton and Germino-Hausken, 2000; Aspen, 2007; PPI, 2004; RAND, 1998; Barnett, 1996; EPI, 2002; Education Sector, 2007]
John Edwards believes that quality preschool education should be as common as kindergarten. As president, he will lead the way toward universal preschool, starting with the children who need the help most. In addition to maintaining and expanding support for existing programs like Head Start and the child care block grant, Edwards will:
Nothing is more important in a school than the relationship between a teacher and a child. In a single year, a good teacher can raise student achievement by a full grade level more than a less effective teacher. Yet students with the greatest needs are more likely to have less experienced and effective teachers. Poor urban and rural schools in particular struggle to attract and retain excellent teachers. While pay for CEOs and other highly paid workers skyrocketed in recent years, teachers earn a fraction of the salaries paid to other educated professionals.
John Edwards believes we need to invest more in training and paying our teachers to help every child learn at high levels. As president, he will:
To address other recruitment hurdles, Edwards will help states and school districts improve working conditions and increase time for teacher collaboration and planning. He will also address barriers for teachers moving between states by encouraging reciprocal credentials and studying ways to make pension plans compatible. [NCTAF, 1996 and 2002; Sanders and Rivers, 1996; Jordan, Mednro, and Weerasinghe, 1997; Peske and Haycock, 2006; Rural School and Community Trust, 2006 and 2007; NY Times, 8/27/2007]
Every child in America should have the chance to attend an outstanding public school that has high expectations for every child. Children need to master both basic skills in reading, writing and math and advanced thinking skills like creativity, analytic thinking and using technology. We cannot tolerate the benign neglect of our schools. No Child Left Behind has lost its way by imposing cheap standardized tests, narrowing the curriculum at the expense of science, history, and the arts and mandating unproven cookie-cutter reforms on schools. As a result, it has lost the support of teachers, principals, and parents, whose support is needed for any reform to succeed.
John Edwards believes that we need to overhaul No Child Left Behind to center our schools around children, not tests, and help struggling schools, not punish them. He will: