 – Iowans for Hillary today announced the names of 532 Iowans who have served our nation in the armed services and are supporting Hillary Clinton. These veterans have united behind Hillary because of her incredible record fighting for our men and women in the armed services.
"Hillary Clinton has always stood with our nation's veterans," said Sgt. Major Dean Cox, former chairman of the Iowa Veterans Council of Corydon. "She has never forgotten about our soldiers who return home without the VA care they need. Hillary has fought hard in the Senate for change and I will do everything I can to make her successful in the caucuses."
Hillary Clinton built on her long history of fighting for our veterans and announced new policies to ensure our country fulfills its obligations to those who have served and sacrificed for the nation. She announced that, as president, she will enact a GI Bill of Rights for the 21st century that will offer service members, veterans and their families with expanded education, housing and entrepreneurial benefits. In addition, as president, Hillary will ensure that all of the 1.8 million uninsured veterans in this country has access to quality, affordable health care and will establish a pilot program on homelessness prevention for veterans. The program will provide subsidies, eviction prevention, and one-time assistance for veterans who fall behind on their rent.
"I served our country in the armed services and I'm supporting Hillary Clinton. We need a president who has the experience, strength and credibility to help repair our alliances and restore our county's image around the world," said Lorraine Murphy of Le Mars who served in Saudi Arabia from 1989-92. "We need a president who has the know-how to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home safely. Hillary would be that president."
"Now more than ever, our armed forces need a leader they can believe in," said John Tuttle, former state American Legion Commander of Norwalk. "Hillary has shown she cares for our troops by fighting in the Senate for better body armor and increased benefits. We need Hillary; she has the strength and experience to deliver the change we need."
Clinton has a long history of working on issues important to active duty and retired military personnel. As First Lady, she helped call attention to Gulf War Syndrome. As a Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Hillary has championed legislation to improve the lives of our veterans and their families. She worked to provide access to TRICARE for National Guard and Reserve members. She authored the Heroes at Home Act that will begin to help service members struggling with post traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury. She worked with others in the Senate to pass legislation to increase the military survivor benefit from $12,000 to $100,000. She represents bases such as Fort Drum, home of the 10th Mountain Division, West Point, Watervliet Arsenal, Fort Hamilton, the Rome Air Force Research Laboratory, Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station and four other Air National Guard bases. She is also the only Senator to serve on the Joint Forces Command Transformation Advisory Group.
"We pause this week to honor all of the brave men and women who have honored us by wearing our nation's uniform," said Clinton in Waterloo. "Through their service and sacrifice, our veterans defended our country, our freedom, and our values. We could never adequately repay the debt that is owed. But what we can do and must do is ensure that veterans receive the benefits they have earned through their service and continue strengthening the country they fought for and love."
Hillary is the first member of the Senate Armed Services Committee from New York, and has traveled overseas to witness firsthand the incredible courage of our troops. In the Senate, she has been a consistent leader in improving mental health services, access to medical care, general welfare and morale among our veterans.