 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 A strong America requires a strong military and our government must do more to support our men and women in uniform, their families and those who have returned home after sacrificing for their country. Governor Romney will take action to expand our Armed Forces, commit the funding critical to give them the equipment and protection they need, support military families and improve care for our veterans.
 Our military suffered a dangerous decline under the Clinton Administration and has faced serious strains as we confront Jihadist threats following 9/11. To support our troops, we need to ensure we have the personnel and resources needed to maintain a strong America and safe world by:
 By expanding our military's size, we can help alleviate some of the stress faced by our current Armed Forces and National Guard.
 This will help provide the resources needed to make long-overdue investments in equipment, weapons systems, modernization, training, health care, family programs, and treatment of our wounded soldiers.
 Governor Romney will call upon a team of private-sector and defense experts to carry out a stem-to-stern review of military purchasing because increased spending should not mean increased waste.
 Governor Romney will establish a Rapid Innovation Force within the military to rapidly deploy the equipment and innovative solutions our troops need for their success and protection. This force will expand and provide permanent authority for efforts started in the Army and create a permanent Force to continually assess the military's needs on the ground and the available technology so that commanders have the equipment they need. The Force will streamline bureaucracy to guarantee the rapid deployment of urgently needed equipment. It will link our military and civilian agencies to provide synergy in civilian-military operations.
 In response to the ever-changing nature of the threat in places such as Afghanistan in Iraq, the Army established a new Rapid Equipping Force that has deployed up-armored humvees, thousands of anti-IED robots and technology that has helped change the dynamics on the ground and save lives. This Force strips away bureaucracy and works with commanders on the ground and U.S. companies to rapidly seek out and deploy technologies like improved body armor and anti-IED technologies.
 Currently, benefit amounts under the Montgomery G.I. Bill are periodically adjusted by Congress to account for increases in educational costs. But these increases have not kept pace with the rising costs of higher education. Governor Romney will call for a regular outside review of benefits under the Montgomery G.I. Bill to ensure that our veterans, active duty military, and their eligible spouses and dependents have the resources they need to pursue the educational opportunities they deserve.
 Most states extend in-state tuition benefits to military dependents whose parents are stationed there. Many more, however, do not permit the continuation of discounted in-state tuition benefits once a military parent has been reassigned out-of-state. Governor Romney will level the playing field for military families by calling on every state to extend in-state tuition benefits to military dependents whose parents are stationed there and, furthermore, to permit the continuation of the in-state tuition rate even if their parents are reassigned and forced to leave the state.
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Appoints State's 1st Secretary Of Veterans' Services," Press Release, 8/28/03)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Law Protecting Armed Service Members," Press Release, 9/23/04)
 (Courtney Hollands, "Concerns Over Fate Of Veterans Bill," The [Quincy, MA] Patriot Ledger, 6/16/04)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Signs Legislation Expanding Military Benefits," Press Release, 11/11/05)
 (Office Of Governor Mitt Romney, "Romney Expands Tax Benefits For Disabled Veterans," Press Release, 8/14/06)