Lincoln D. Almond, of Rhode Island, to be United States District Judge for the District of Rhode Island, vice Ernest C. Torres, retired.
Edmund A. Booth, Jr., of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Lisa Godbey Wood, resigned.
Gregory A. Brower, of Nevada, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nevada for the term of four years, vice Daniel G. Bogden, resigned.
Mark S. Davis, of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice T. S. Ellis, III, retired.
Rebecca A. Gregory, of Texas, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas for the term of four years, vice Matthew D. Orwig, resigned.
William Joseph Hawe, of Washington, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Washington for the term of four years, vice Eric Eugene Robertson, resigned.
Reed Verne Hillman, of Massachusetts, to be United States Marshal for the District of Massachusetts for the term of four years, vice Anthony Dichio.
Diane J. Humetewa, of Arizona, to be United States Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of four years, vice Paul K. Charlton, resigned.
David Gregory Kays, of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Missouri, vice Dean Whipple, retired.
Michael G. McGinn, of Minnesota, to be United States Marshal for the District of Minnesota for the term of four years, vice Allen Garber, retired.
Richard T. Morrison, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years, vice Carolyn Miller Parr, term expired.
David J. Novak, of Virginia, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, vice Robert E. Payne, retired.
Gene E. K. Pratter, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Franklin S. Van Antwerpen, retired.
Rod J. Rosenstein, of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Francis D. Murnaghan, Jr., deceased.
Joseph P. Russoniello, of California, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of California for the term of four years, vice Kevin Vincent Ryan.
Carolyn P. Short, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Gene E. K. Pratter, upon elevation.