President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Grace C. Becker, of New York, to be Assistant Attorney General (Civil Rights) at the Department of Justice. Ms. Becker currently serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Rights Division. Prior to this, she served as an Associate Deputy General Counsel at the Department of Defense and as a prosecutor with the Department of Justice. Earlier in her career, Ms. Becker clerked for Judge James L. Buckley on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson on the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Ms. Becker received her bachelor's degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and Wharton School of Finance. She received her JD from Georgetown Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Mark R. Filip, of Illinois, to be Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. Filip currently serves as United States District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois. Prior to this, he served as a Partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Criminal Division of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Illinois. Mr. Filip received his bachelor's degrees from the University of Illinois and the University of Oxford. He received his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Nathan J. Hochman, of California, to be Assistant Attorney General (Tax Division) at the Department of Justice. Mr. Hochman currently serves as a Principal of Hochman, Salkin, Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C. Prior to this, he served as Assistant United States Attorney for the Central District of California. Earlier in his career, he served as a Law Clerk to U.S. District Judge Stephen V. Wilson. Mr. Hochman received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his JD from Stanford Law School.
The President intends to nominate Gregory G. Katsas, of Massachusetts, to be Assistant Attorney General (Civil Division) at the Department of Justice. Mr. Katsas currently serves as Acting Associate Attorney General and Principal Deputy Associate Attorney General. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as a Partner at Jones Day and as a law clerk to Judge Edward Becker and to Justice Clarence Thomas. Mr. Katsas received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his JD from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to nominate Kevin J. O'Connor, of Connecticut, to be Associate Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. O'Connor currently serves as United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut and has served as Chief of Staff to the Attorney General. Earlier in his career, he served as a Partner at Day, Berry and Howard, LLP and as Staff Attorney and Senior Counsel in the Division of Enforcement of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. O'Connor received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his JD from the University of Connecticut School of Law.