 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Homeland Security Policy Advisory Group. This group of men and women will be tasked with advising Governor Romney on issues pertaining to America's homeland security including border security, infrastructure security and transportation security.
"Protecting our homeland requires a comprehensive approach that secures our border, protects critical infrastructure and integrates intelligence to detect threats to our security. Ensuring that the American people are secure means working across agencies and levels of government," said Governor Romney. "The men and women of this group bring extensive experience from Congress, homeland security, law enforcement and business to our efforts to craft the strategies needed to protect the United States. I look forward to their counsel and working closely with them on this vital issue."
The Homeland Security Policy Advisory Group will be chaired by Representative Lamar Smith (R-TX), who also advises Governor Romney on judicial matters.
As Chair of the Homeland Security Policy Advisory Group, Representative Smith said, "Governor Romney has years of experience working to improve our nation's homeland security policies. He oversaw security efforts at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games, served on the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council, and brought innovative tactics to Massachusetts' homeland security strategy. As President, he will provide our law enforcement and homeland security personnel with the resources they need to secure the border and protect America."
 Congressman Smith is the Ranking Republican Member of the House Judiciary Committee and sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security.
 Congressman Aderholt serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security.
 Congresswoman Brown-Waite sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security serving on the Subcommittee on Transportation Security and Infrastructure Protection and the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology.
 Congresswoman Granger sits on the Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Homeland Security. She also Co-Chairs the Anti-Terrorism Caucus.
 Congressman Rogers sits on the House Committee on Homeland Security and is the Ranking Republican Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Management, Investigations and Oversight.
 Binzer has extensive experience in pandemic readiness policy as the former Senior FDA Health Counsel for the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions and the Committee on the Budget.
 Bouche served as Chief Information Officer of the Illinois State Police, leading the Information and Technology Command. He also served on the Global Justice Information Sharing Initiative, an advisory committee to the U.S. Attorney General on information sharing and integration initiatives. As Chair of the advisory committee, he led the development of the National Criminal Intelligence Sharing Plan, the Fusion Center Guidelines and the Global Justice XML Data Model.
 Cohen served as Deputy Director for Policy and Government Affairs for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) and as Chief of Staff to Commissioners Raymond Kelly and Robert Bonner at the U.S. Customs Service.
 Jamian most recently served as the Acting Maritime Administrator and Deputy Administrator for the U.S. Department of Transportation's Maritime Administration. He was a member of the President's National Presidential Security Directive charged with creating the national maritime security initiative. He also co-managed the Maritime Security Program and also served as Executive Director of the Detroit/Wayne County Port Authority.
 From 2003 to 2005, Mencer served as the Director of the Office for Domestic Preparedness within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. She also served as Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public Safety and is a 20-year veteran of the FBI.
 In July 2003, Commissioner Moore retired as the longest serving Director of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. Under Governor Jeb Bush, he was charged with coordinating domestic security efforts and serving as Incident Commander in the event of a terrorist attack. He served on the President's Homeland Security Advisory Council and then the Homeland Security Advisory Council of the new Department of Homeland Security.
 Dr. Schiller is a former Executive Director and Secretary General of the United States Olympic Committee and a pilot in the U.S. Air Force who saw combat service in Vietnam and attained the rank of Brigadier General. He is currently the Chairman and CEO of Global Options Group, a leading risk mitigation company.