SANTA FE-- Today Governor Bill Richardson launched a new energy efficiency initiative in New Mexico, calling for a 20% reduction in per capita energy use statewide from 2005 levels by 2020, with an interim goal of a 10% reduction by 2012.
In keeping with the Governor's policy of state agencies leading by example, he is calling for more rapid achievement of the goal by state agencies. Specifically, he wants executive branch state agencies to reduce energy usage by 20% below 2005 levels in state buildings used for agency operations by 2015. He also is directing Executive Branch state agencies to achieve a 20% usage reduction below 2005 levels in state fleet and transportation-related activities by 2015.
"Energy efficiency is one of the most effective ways to save consumers and businesses money on their energy bills while reducing global warming pollution," said Governor Bill Richardson. "That's why I spearheaded a Western Governors Association initiative to achieve a 20% increase in energy efficiency across the West by 2020. Today New Mexico is doing its part to achieve that goal."
The Governor's energy efficiency initiative includes an executive order establishing statewide targets, as well as proposed legislation and budget items for the 2008 session.
:
Last year $2.0 million dollars was appropriated to the fund for innovative projects that relate to achieving New Mexico goals for clean energy and including partnerships between private and public sectors.
Last year $4.0 million was appropriated to support planning, design, life-cycle analyses and construction of green building projects at 14 schools.
Last year, $1.0 million was appropriated for an energy efficiency housing development program and an energy efficiency rehabilitation program. These dollars leveraged $1.0 million in private funds and the Enterprise Community Partners has committed to providing a 3 to 1 loan match for these dollars.
The New Mexico Higher Education Department has been working with institutions to explicitly consider the effect on the environment in evaluating every new construction and renovation project. This ‘green screen' will not only consider energy costs, but also other aspects of design affecting the sustainability of the entire campus. In addition to requiring a higher standard in project design, $10 million will be requested for an Energy Efficiency Improvement Fund that would be appropriated to the Higher Education Department and distributed through an RFP process for specific renovation projects that will generate quantifiable and credible energy savings. 
For example, the Luna Multi-Purpose Education Center and an example of a project that is already designed meet or exceed LEED Gold Certified requirements. The New Mexico Higher Education Department is recommending $4.5 million for this project to complement $2.75 million of institution funding.
In support of the Executive Order establishing targets for reductions of energy usage in state buildings, an appropriation will be requested for the General Services Department for allocation to energy efficiency projects that will generate quantifiable and credible energy savings. The dollars will be distributed in accordance with both the energy efficiency implementation plan submitted to the Climate Change Implementation Team and statewide capital planning documents. 
This energy efficiency initiative builds on Governor Richardson's strong record of improving energy efficiency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Past efforts include the Governor's 2006 executive order (06-001) requiring a 50 percent improvement in the energy performance of new buildings for Executive Branch state agencies, adoption of greener building codes (ongoing), and the current effort to adopt the California Clean Car Standard to reduce vehicle pollution.