The Clinton campaign today announced the addition of 44 members to its national LGBT Americans for Hillary Steering Committee. The announcement comes just a day after Clinton successfully hosted a fundraiser with 250 members of the LGBT community in Washington, DC as well as a day after the endorsement of openly gay Congressman Barney Frank.
"I am honored to have the support of these leaders in the LGBT community," Clinton said. "Together, we can end the divisive politics of the current administration and renew the promise of fairness and equality for all Americans."
The list of new supporters reflects the diversity of the LGBT community itself and includes Army veteran Eric Alva, the first marine to be injured during the war in Iraq; comedian Kate Clinton; transgender activists, Dana Beyer and Donna Rose; Robert Hanson, President of Levi Strauss of America; Alexander Robinson, CEO of the National Black Justice Coalition and Earl Fowlkes, President and CEO, International Federation of Black Prides, Inc. Several elected officials are also joining the national Steering Committee, including Delegate Adam Ebbin of Virginia, State Rep. Steve Howard of Vermont, State Senator Jolie Justus of Missouri, State Rep. Sarah Peake of Massachusetts, State Rep. David Pierce of New Hampshire, State Rep. Patricia Todd of Alabama, and State Rep. Kathy Webb of Arkansas. Clinton now has the public support of twenty members of the Board of the National Stonewall Democrats, including Board Co-chairs, Steve Driscoll and Laurie McBride.
Hillary has been a longtime friend of the gay community. She fought against the Federal Marriage Amendment (FMA) both times and has worked on legislation that would promote equality for LGBT Americans. She worked to pass the Pension Protection Act, which allows same sex partners to transfer their pensions to each other and is an original co-sponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act and the Matthew Shepard Hate Crimes Prevention Act. Hillary is also an original co-sponsor of the Domestic Partnership Benefits and Obligation Act, which would grant the same benefits, including health insurance, to domestic partners of federal employees that are currently offered to only employees' legal spouses. She has been a champion of the Early Treatment for HIV Act, which expands access to vital treatment options for low-income individuals living with HIV and fought to fully fund the Ryan White CARE Act.
As President, Hillary will work to make sure that gay and lesbian couples in committed relationships have the same rights and responsibilities as all Americans. She will also work to end discrimination in adoption laws, sign hate crimes legislation and ENDA into law, and put an end to the failed policy of Don't Ask, Don't Tell.
* Members of LGBT AMERICANS FOR HILLARY have endorsed Hillary Clinton for President in their individual capacity. The names of past or present affiliations are included to assist in identifying the individuals listed and do not indicate any endorsement by that group or organization.