 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Address To The Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit, 10/19/07)


 "I will work with the people in this room, as I have for the past four years, to champion a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage as the union of a man and a woman. ... Make no mistake: a federal amendment is the only way we can protect marriage from liberal, unelected judges." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Address To The Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit, 10/19/07)
- 
 (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "Marriage And The GOP," 
, 9/14/07)


 GOV. ROMNEY: "We need an amendment that restores and protects our societal definition of marriage, blocks judges from changing that definition and then, consistent with the principles of federalism, leaves other policy issues regarding marriage to state legislatures." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Testimony, United States Senate Committee On The Judiciary, 6/22/04)
- 
 " 
 (Maggie Gallagher, "In Defense Of The Family," National Review Online, 6/25/04)
 GOV. ROMNEY: "Our society, like all known civilizations in recorded history, has favored the union of a man and a woman with the special designation and benefits of marriage. In this respect, it has elevated the relationship of a legally bound man and woman over other relationships. 
 (Gov. Mitt Romney, Letter To United States Senators, 6/2/06)
- 
 "Some argue that our principles of federalism and local control require us to leave the issue of same sex marriage to the states, which means, as a practical matter, to state courts. Such an argument denies the realities of modern life and 
. ... Because of this, and because Americans conduct their financial and legal lives in a united country bound by interstate institutions, 
." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Letter To United States Senators, 6/2/06)


 SEN. CLINTON: "When you and I were plotting strategy to beat the Federal Marriage Amendment, the reason we were plotting strategy is, we were worried it was going to pass." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 "Today, we should take this amendment only for what it is - a political ploy designed to rally a few supporters and draw the country's attention away from this leadership's past failures and America's future challenges." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Floor Statement Of Senator Barack Obama On The Federal Marriage Amendment," Press Release, 6/5/06)
 EDWARDS: "I don't think the federal government should be telling either states or our religious organizations what marriages they can and should bless. I don't think those are decisions that should be made by the federal government. I'm against the constitutional amendment, have been vigorously against it." ("Former Sen. John Edwards Participates In A Roundtable Discussion On Gas Prices," 
, 5/31/07)


 "'The states have always determined age of marriage, other conditions and over time we've gotten rid a lot of discrimination that used to exist in marriage laws,' [Clinton] said. 'That's now happening. People are making decisions. Civil unions, marriage. They're deciding in the states and I think that's the appropriate place for that to be.'" (Amy Lorentzen, "Presidential Candidates Focus On Gay Marriage After Iowa Ruling," 
, 9/1/07)
 "A spokesman for Democrat Barack Obama said the senator 'believes these matters should be left to the states, which is why he opposes the Defense of Marriage Act.'" (Amy Lorentzen, "Presidential Candidates Focus On Gay Marriage After Iowa Ruling," 
, 9/1/07)
 "On a recent ruling in Iowa where a Polk County judge ruled that the state's ban on gay marriage is unconstitutional, [Edwards] said states should be in control of their own marriage laws. 'I don't think there should be a federal constitutional ban on it,' he said." (Amy Lorentzen, "Edwards Says Doctor Visit Mandatory Under His Health Care Plan," 
, 9/2/07)


 (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
 (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)