 – Today, as part of his national seven-day "Stand Strong" campaign, Senator John Edwards outlined a bold plan to stand up for hard-working families by restoring corporate responsibility and helping families achieve financial security in the new economy. Over the course of the 20th century, America built the strongest middle class in history due to a basic bargain among government, businesses and families, but today, big corporate interests and Washington insiders have put narrow interests ahead of the middle class. During a speech in Des Moines, Iowa, Edwards called for a renewal of the social compact between business, government and families.
"In America, we have a grand social compact – anyone who is willing to work hard and do the right thing should have the opportunity to share in our nation's prosperity," said Edwards. "But our social compact is falling apart. The statistics say our economy is growing, but the truth is, it's only growing at the top. While corporate profits climb and the wealth of the very wealthiest grows, instead of protecting the compact of equal opportunity and shared prosperity, Washington protects corporate profits and hoards prosperity.
"We don't need any more empty promises. We need to restore one promise – the promise of America, the social compact that built the greatest economy in the world. It takes strength to say 'no' to the lobbyists and special interests – but I will never compromise my principles for the sake of politics. I believe if we stand together we can change this country and restore the social compact, moving us ever closer to the America of our ideals."
The challenge of building a strong, larger, more secure middle class is at the heart of Edwards' campaign to build One America. He has laid out an ambitious agenda to guarantee universal health care, invest in future prosperity through education and energy innovation, reform tax laws to reward work, and establish smarter trade policies. Today, he announced new efforts to renew the social compact between business, government, and families by:
During the week-long "Stand Strong" campaign, Edwards has been traveling across Iowa and New Hampshire to highlight his bold and detailed proposals for health care reform, smart and safe trade policies, ending the war in Iraq and restoring America's moral authority in the world. Edwards grew up in small, rural towns and is running for president to represent hard-working families, like the ones he grew up with.
"Real strength comes from standing up for the millions of American families who don't have a voice," said Edwards. "We need a leader in the White House who has the strength and courage to stand up and fight for regular Americans rather than someone who defends the lobbyists that are destroying the better America we all believe in."
Further details of Edwards' plan for "Restoring Corporate Responsibility and Rebuilding the Middle Class" are included in the fact sheet below.
Over the course of the 20th century, America built the strongest middle class in history due to a basic bargain among government, businesses and families. Millions of workers were able to earn job security, upward mobility, and benefits like health coverage and a secure retirement. While not everyone was given the same opportunities, prosperity was widely shared and we did better together. But over the past generation, that bargain has broken down. Globalization, technology and demographic change have transformed our economy, corporate insiders have put their own interests first, and Washington has put narrow interests ahead of the middle class. A few at the top in Washington and in the corporate world believe that the values that built our nation – opportunity, rewarding work, and a strong community – can now be discarded.
The challenge of building a strong, larger, more secure middle class is at the heart of John Edwards' campaign to build One America. He has laid out an ambitious agenda to guarantee universal health care, invest in future prosperity through education and energy innovation, reform tax laws to reward work, and establish smarter trade policies. Today, he announced new efforts to renew the social compact between business, government, and families by:
We need to modernize the basic bargain supporting a strong middle class, giving hard-working families more security and the opportunity to get ahead. To renew the social contract at work, John Edwards will:
Americans who retire with a pension have nearly twice the annual income of those who depend only on Social Security and personal savings, but few families are saving enough and nearly a third of workers are not saving at all. Meanwhile, even profitable businesses are cutting back their pension benefits promised to workers. [PRC, 2007; Aspen, 2007]
Universal health care coverage should have been a part of the social contract since it was first proposed by Harry Truman. Instead, most middle-class families get health insurance from their jobs, but the percentage of firms offering coverage has fallen from 69 percent to 61 percent since 2000 and businesses have shifted more costs onto workers. Premiums have grown by 87 percent to $11,500 for an average family since 2000. Worker mobility discourages insurers from investing in care that would prevent later, larger costs for chronic illnesses like diabetes and heart disease. Workers who lose their jobs may lose their health care at the same time, and a short spell without insurance can become permanent for someone with a preexisting condition. In addition, small businesses struggle to find affordable insurance and one sick employee can result in dramatically higher health care costs. Meanwhile, businesses spent $16 billion in 1999 administering their own benefit plans, an inefficient and duplicative process. [KFF, 2007; Woolhandler et al, 2003]
A crisis in corporate governance has left our economy vulnerable to abuse by corporate insiders. In 2005, the average CEO was paid more in one workday than the average worker earned all year. While some CEOs generate large returns and deserve rich compensation, one analysis found that executives at the worst-performing large companies were paid the most. Corporate boards are supposed to represent shareholders but directors are often hand-picked by management from the same pool of insiders. Businesses have also stepped up their campaign contributions and lobbying to persuade Washington to dismantle consumer and worker protections that conflicted with their bottom lines. Large corporations' role in our economy and society has increased but transparency and accountability have not. [EPI, 2006; Daines, Nair, and Kornhauser, 2005]
Corporations should not be run exclusively for the benefit of insiders, top executives and directors. John Edwards believes that they also have responsibilities to shareholders, workers, and the public. He has already proposed steps to expand saving opportunities for regular families and expand stock ownership. He will reform corporations from the inside by strengthening the voices of workers and shareholders. And he will also reform them from the outside by limiting excessive executive compensation, increasing transparency and strengthening consumer protections.