 Governor Romney has outlined a comprehensive solution to America's health care ills that expands access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance. Rather than relying on a one-size-fits-all, government-run system, Governor Romney's plan recognizes the importance of the role that New Hampshire can play in leading reform and the need for innovation in dealing with rising health care costs and the problem of the uninsured.
 More than 128,000 people are uninsured. For those with insurance, the average annual individual health insurance premium is $3,134. In 2004 alone, nearly $7.1 billion was spent on health care by people in New Hampshire.
 Governor Romney believes that by expanding and deregulating the private health insurance market, we can decrease costs and ensure that more Granite Staters have access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance.
 As Governor of Massachusetts, Governor Romney successfully led the effort for comprehensive health care reform, and he recognizes that the federal government must do what it can to facilitate effective change at the state level. His reforms will give New Hampshire the flexibility to design its own health care reform plan. But Governor Romney's conservative reforms also make the states true partners in the effort to expand access to affordable, quality health insurance.
 Many in New Hampshire can't afford private health insurance because state markets are over-regulated and in serious need of reform. In New Hampshire, there are 30 mandated benefits included in health insurance plans. Governor Romney will provide federal incentives for states to deregulate and reform their health insurance markets. This will bring down the cost of health insurance and facilitate greater consumer choice, while giving states like New Hampshire the power to institute the reforms that suit them best.
 Currently, taxpayers subsidize "free care" for millions who are uninsured but receive treatment when they need it. Governor Romney will end subsidized care for "free riders" by redirecting these existing federal and state resources to help the low-income uninsured purchase their own private health insurance. States like New Hampshire are free to craft their own programs and institute their own eligibility requirements. Most importantly, this can be done without the need for new spending or taxes.
 The tax code currently discriminates against those who do not buy their health insurance through an employer and creates incentives for the over-consumption of health care services. Governor Romney will make private insurance more affordable for every Granite Stater by reforming the tax code. He will expand and grow HSAs. He also supports the full deductibility of qualified medical expenses, which will allow people in New Hampshire to deduct the cost of their health insurance and out-of-pocket medical expenses, where accompanied by at least catastrophic insurance.
 States have very little flexibility under current law to enact innovative changes to Medicaid that will help more citizens while containing costs. In New Hampshire, more than 72,000 people receive Medicaid benefits and the average annual Medicaid payment per enrollee is $5,865. Governor Romney will block-grant federal funds to states and remove the burdensome administrative requirements that prevent New Hampshire and other states from improving the program.
 Too many doctors are practicing defensive medicine because of frivolous lawsuits and an out-of-control medical liability system. Governor Romney will implement medical liability reform, including federal caps on non-economic and punitive damage awards in medical malpractice cases. He will also encourage states to engage in additional medical liability reforms that will both honor the rights of patients and respect the work of physicians. New Hampshire has passed a number of tort reforms but more must be done nationally.
 Consumers in New Hampshire are not empowered in the current system to make intelligent decisions about the purchase of health care and many aspects of the health care system remain technologically backwards. Governor Romney will bring health care into the 21st century by enhancing the use of information technology, establishing cost and quality transparency, encouraging more HSAs and co-insurance products, and calling for more provider options.
To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.