 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Ensuring that New Hampshire's economy is strong and competitive depends on leadership in Washington that will embark on an effort for domestic change and open international markets for American products.
 By opening markets to American and New Hampshire goods and products, we can strengthen our economy and keep more jobs in New Hampshire. Nearly one-fifth of all manufacturing workers in New Hampshire depend on exports for their jobs. To strengthen and expand New Hampshire's manufacturing base, more markets abroad must be open to American goods. Opening markets also benefits small businesses. Of the companies that exported goods from New Hampshire in 2005, 88% were small and medium-sized businesses with less than 500 employees. If we enhance our competitiveness and ensure that American goods have access to more markets abroad, then we can strengthen the economy in New Hampshire.
 
 
 The Doha Round and free trade agreements can be huge opportunities for New Hampshire if we ensure no unilateral disarmament on agriculture and demand that they provide strong benefits for companies across New Hampshire.
 Helping New Hampshire succeed in the global economy means we must enforce our current agreements. Governor Romney's vision for expanding trade includes stronger: enforcement efforts abroad; U.S. and multilateral efforts to stop currency manipulation by China and others; action against intellectual property rights theft; negotiations to open markets for services that are the bulk of our economy; and building food, safety and other standards to protect Americans but stop illegitimate efforts to stop U.S. exports.
 We need bold ideas to address the new global economy. Starting with a core of U.S. free trade agreement partners, Governor Romney would seek to bring together nations committed to open markets and playing by the rules in the largest ever Free Trade Area, and go beyond traditional trade to promote high standards in areas critical to U.S. competitiveness. The Reagan Zone Of Economic Freedom would act as an alliance working together internally, in the World Trade Organization and elsewhere to push reforms and work cooperatively in areas like labor and the environment. Governor Romney would seek to expand these efforts to include the European Union and other nations that agree to meet these standards, while challenging China and others advancing agreements that exclude America.
 Denying America the ability to negotiate to open markets while our competitors gain advantages is no strategy. Rejecting negotiations to drive open markets will not benefit New Hampshire workers, companies and small businesses.
 We cannot afford to fall behind as China and others cut deals that hurt American exports and jobs. There are already over 300 agreements in the world that do not include the United States and place U.S. exports at a disadvantage.
 Governor Romney will ensure that we maintain the ability to defend our homeland security while expanding legitimate trade and concluding and thoroughly enforcing deals that benefit America.
 Governor Romney believes in giving American and New Hampshire workers the tools they need to succeed and prosper in the new economy. To accomplish this goal, Governor Romney will:
 Governor Romney will initiate an audit of all existing worker training and educational programs to ensure that workers are being helped most efficiently, while eliminating duplicative spending and minimizing bureaucratic overhead. He will also create true "one-stop-shops" that make it easier for workers to get access to the benefits, training, and educational opportunities they need to find jobs in the new economy.
 These self-managed accounts will give workers the opportunity to take control of their own futures by getting the training and education they need to succeed in the new economy. The accounts may be used for a broad variety of different training and educational opportunities, including those provided by community colleges or businesses that hire these workers. Best of all, these accounts will take money out of the hands of bureaucrats and put it into the hands of those who really need it – displaced workers.