 (John Boyanoski, "Romney Hits High Points With Business Crowd," 
, 10/23/07)
 "Governor Romney is a strong believer in free trade and opening foreign markets to American products. While continuing to promote free trade, Governor Romney will also work to ensure that free trade is fair and there is a level-playing field for American products." (Romney For President, "The Romney Agenda: A Conservative Blueprint To Strengthen The Economy," Press Release, 10/9/07)
 "Starting with a core of U.S. free trade agreement partners, Governor Romney would seek to bring together nations committed to open markets and playing by the rules in the largest ever Free Trade Area, and go beyond traditional trade to promote high standards in areas critical to U.S. competitiveness. The Reagan Zone Of Economic Freedom would act as an alliance working together internationally, in the World Trade Organization and elsewhere to push reforms and work cooperatively in areas like labor and the environment." (Romney For President, "The Romney Agenda: A New Vision To Open Markets And Help U.S. Workers To Succeed," Press Release, 10/23/07)
 "We cannot afford to fall behind as China and others cut deals that hurt American exports and jobs. There are already over 300 agreements in the world that do not include the United States and place U.S. exports at a disadvantage." (Romney For President, "The Romney Agenda: A New Vision To Open Markets And Help U.S. Workers To Succeed," Press Release, 10/23/07)
 "Denying America the ability to negotiate to open markets while our competitors gain advantages is no strategy. Rejecting the Free Trade Agreement with Colombia, one of America's strongest allies in the world, would further show they have no understanding of the new global economy and America's leadership role in our hemisphere and the world." (Romney For President, "The Romney Agenda: A New Vision To Open Markets And Help U.S. Workers To Succeed," Press Release, 10/23/07)
 "In crucial Democratic primary states, the anti-globalization fever is running even higher. 'She's lurching left on economics, and it's all about Iowa,' says one Democratic insider with no affiliation to any presidential campaign." (John Heilemann, "Marital Discord," 
, 7/16/07)
 CLINTON: "I don't want to give fast-track authority to this president. That includes things like real trade adjustment assistance and other support." (MSNBC, AFL-CIO Democratic Presidential Candidates Forum, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 "Accordingly, in 2005, she voted against the Central American Free Trade Agreement. Last month, she announced her opposition to the South Korean Free Trade Agreement. ... She has even repeatedly spouted skepticism about the wisdom of NAFTA - while stopping short of blaming her husband for its deficiencies." (John Heilemann, "Marital Discord," New York, 7/16/07)
 ("Who's The Real Left-Winger," 
, 5/10/07)
 "With his opposition to many trade deals and his Wal-Mart bashing, Obama has tentatively allied himself with the [protectionist] camp, all the while depicting himself as a thoughtful centrist." (Editorial, "Obama V. History," The San Diego Union-Tribune, 12/19/06)
 OBAMA: "I would immediately call the president of Mexico, the president of Canada to try to amend NAFTA?" (MSNBC, AFL-CIO Democratic Presidential Candidates Forum, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 (Tom Curry, "Trust At Issue As Obama Courts Union Voters," MSNBC.com, 
, Posted 5/15/07)
 OBAMA: "And the problem that we've had is, is that we've had corporate lobbyists, oftentimes involved in negotiating these trade agreements, but the AFL-CIO hasn't been involved; ordinary working people have not been involved." (MSNBC, AFL-CIO Democratic Presidential Candidates Forum, Chicago, IL, 8/7/07)
 EDWARDS: "For far too long, presidents from both parties have entered into trade agreements, agreements like NAFTA, promising that they would create millions of new jobs and enrich communities. Instead, too many of these agreements have cost us jobs and devastated many of our towns." (Amy Lorentzen, "Edwards Takes Indirect Swipe At Former President Clinton Over Trade Deal," 
, 8/6/07)
 "Aboard his bus, Edwards told me, 'I've always been against NAFTA.' In his speeches, he has gone even further, declaring that he doesn't want 'fast-track' authority, which limits congressional involvement in trade deals?" (Ryan Lizza, "Clintonism Without Bill," 
, 9/17/07)
ABC News' "Special Report #2," 2/21/07)
 (Larry Kudlow, "The Anti-Growth Ticket," 
 Online, 7/7/04)