 The Strategy sets forth our plan to build upon the progress we have made in improving information sharing since the September 11 attacks and establish an integrated National information sharing capability. It was developed using a collaborative process and based on significant input provided by members of the Federal Information Sharing Council, as well as State, local, tribal, and private sector officials from across the Nation.
 Before September 11, we depended on the capabilities of the Intelligence Community to collect, process, analyze, and disseminate intelligence regarding our adversaries and enemies. Today, we are not only enhancing those intelligence capabilities, but also ensuring collaboration among the other relevant Federal communities: law enforcement, defense, homeland security, and foreign affairs. This unified approach among Federal agencies will support improved sharing with non-Federal partners as well.
 As our Nation's first preventers and responders, State, local, and tribal officials must have access to actionable information, as well as mechanisms to support the identification and reporting of potential threats within their jurisdictions.
 The private sector owns and operates over 85 percent of the Nation's critical infrastructure and is, therefore, a primary source of information crucial for understanding the current threat environment. The private sector has improved its information sharing capabilities. This Strategy will build upon the progress already made and describes further efforts that will be taken to improve communications.
 After the September 11 attacks, many foreign governments joined us in declaring war on terrorism and have since contributed in important ways. Intelligence provided by foreign partners often provides the first indications of terrorist plans and intentions. Accordingly, we will enhance standards and provide more capabilities for improved sharing with our foreign partners and allies.
 It is essential to continue protecting the information privacy and other legal rights of Americans as we fight the Global War on Terrorism. Accordingly, our efforts will remain relentless on two fronts protecting our people, our communities, and our infrastructure from attack and zealously protecting the information privacy and other legal rights of Americans.