SANTA FE -- Governor Richardson today joined with Governors Bill Ritter of Colorado, Ted Kulongoski of Oregon, and Christine Gregoire of Washington calling on Congress to incorporate the best provisions of the House and Senate versions of the Energy Bill into a final bill and pass it this year.
The Governors sent a joint letter (full text below) to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid applauding their dedication to crafting comprehensive energy legislation and calling for a final bill with the most environmentally progressive provisions included.
"Members of Congress -- including New Mexico's Jeff Bingaman and Tom Udall -- have worked hard to shepherd bills through the Senate and House," said New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson. "Congress must make a final push before the recess to pass a bill with a strong renewable electricity standard (RES), increased vehicle fuel economy standards, tax credit extensions for renewable energy production and solar investment, and energy efficiency incentives and standards. I also urge Congress not to penalize states, which have stronger, cleaner environmental regulation by requiring them to meet a weaker federal standard."
Specifically, the letter called for inclusion of at least the following provisions in final energy legislation:
In addition to these essential provisions, the Governors called for inclusion of several other elements:
The full text of the letter is below:

        

        

        

        
October 30, 2007
Senator Harry Reid

        Senate Majority Leader

        528 Hart Senate Office Building

        Washington, DC 20510
Representative Nancy Pelosi

        Speaker of the House

        235 Cannon House Office Building

        Washington, DC 20515
Dear Senator Reid and Speaker Pelosi:
We applaud your dedication to crafting comprehensive energy legislation this year. The versions passed by the Senate and the House contain critical measures to increase our energy independence, promote renewable energy sources, increase efficiency, and protect natural resources.
If enacted, these policies would be a positive first step forward. While they do not include the complete range of critical energy and climate issues we support, we appreciate your leadership and encourage you to continue to press forward in those areas expeditiously.
Our states are leaders in actions to drive clean and diversified energy investments, and we are encouraged by your efforts at the federal level. We are writing to urge you to incorporate the best provisions of both bills into a final energy bill this year.
Specifically, we urge you to include at least the following provisions in the final legislation. Individual Governors may have additional recommendations.
In addition to these essential provisions for our energy future, there are several other elements under consideration that would benefit our citizens, including:
Thank you again for your dedication and leadership in finalizing an energy bill this year.
Sincerely,
cc: Members of Congress