Sen. Fred Thompson released the following statement endorsing H.R. 3554 by Congressman Steve King (R - IA) today and calling for better enforcement of America's laws against hiring those who cannot work in the country legally:
"It's time for America to start enforcing our immigration laws and stop giving businesses that hire illegal workers a free pass. A key principle of my immigration reform proposal is attrition through enforcement. I am supporting a bill by Congressman Steve King, which would deny a tax deduction to employers for the wages they pay to illegal immigrants because it provides a disincentive to employers who hire undocumented workers. Businesses in America that do not play by the rules should not be rewarded under our tax system."
H.R. 3554 would prohibit an employer from taking a deduction for wages paid to illegal aliens while providing safe harbor for employers participating in the electronic verification program.
"I am happy that Fred Thompson has endorsed my bill and it's because he understands that IRS enforcement can be as important as the DHS in enforcing immigration law," said Congressman King.
Sen. Thompson recently released a comprehensive border security and immigration enforcement proposal that would make America safer by increasing security at our nation's borders, enforcing our country's existing laws to reduce the incentive for illegal immigration and streamlining the legal immigration process.
Thompson's two-pronged plan, which can be found in its entirety at 
 , is based on two principles: 1) Securing the Border and Enforcing the Law, and 2) Improving the Legal Immigration Process.
Highlights of the proposal include:
A. End Sanctuary Cities by cutting off discretionary federal grant funds as appropriate to any community that, by law ordinance, executive order, or other formal policy directs its public officials not to comply with the provisions of 8 USC 1373 and 8 USC 1644, which prohibit any state or local government from restricting in any way communications with the Department of Homeland Security "regarding the immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of an alien in the United States."
B. Deny discretionary Federal education grants as appropriate to public universities that violate federal law by offering in-state tuition rates to illegal aliens without also offering identical benefits to United States citizens, regardless of whether or not they live in the state, as required by 8 USC 1623.
C. Deny discretionary Federal grants as appropriate to states and local governments that violate federal law by offering public benefits to illegal aliens, as prohibited by 8 USC 1621(a).