The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced its leadership in four Michigan Congressional Districts.
The campaign has named Chairs for the 10th, 12th, 13th, and 15th Congressional Districts, which include the Detroit area and surrounding counties.
"We are excited to join together in support of Mayor Giuliani, who has the most public executive leadership experience of anyone running and has displayed the kind of strong leadership our country needs," said Kim Porter-Hoppe, who will serve as Chair of the campaign's efforts in the 15th Congressional District.
Additionally, the campaign named Chairs for several counties within those four districts, including Huron, Lapeer, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, Sanilac and St. Clair Shores counties.
"We're excited that Mayor Giuliani's campaign in Michigan continues to grow," said Rep. Candice Miller, Giuliani's Michigan State Chair. "These leaders in their respective communities will help communicate Mayor Giuliani's message to Michigan voters – and we're confident that voters will see Rudy is the right man to be our nominee and our next President."

Kowal is clerk of Shelby Township and has been a Republican State Committee member and a delegate to the Republican National Convention.
 Vici Rewiako-Smiley, of Warren, is a homemaker who has served in numerous roles with the Macomb County Republican Party.
 Bill Susick, of Clinton Township, is retired from a career in the auto industry. He is also a veteran of the U.S. Navy.
 Axe, of Grosse Pointe Farms, is an attorney and president of the law firm Axe & Ecklund. He also headed the group Citizens for Michigan, which sought to make changes to the state's constitution.
 Porter-Hoppe, of Ypsilanti, is chair of the Alliance of Black Republicans and the elections coordinator for Salem Township. She is coordinator for the Washtenaw County Family Support Network and was appointed to the President's Committee for People with Mental Retardation, whose name she helped change to the President's Committee on People with Intellectual Disabilities.

Bohm, of China, is a real estate developer who serves as a commissioner in St. Clair County, as well as chair of the Public Safety Judiciary Committee.

Gaertner is the Huron County Prosecutor and lives in Austin.

Hunt, of Croswell, serves on the Board of Commissioners in Sanilac County.

Lawter, of Columbiaville, is a retired General Motors executive who serves on the elected executive board of the Lapeer County Republican Party.

Lawter serves on the elected executive board of the Lapeer County Republican Party and is a resident of Columbiaville.

Bill Axtell, of Ferndale, is a founding member and past president of Ferndale Area Republicans and a former president of the Ferndale Chamber of Commerce. He was appointed by Governor John Engler to the Michigan Commission on Disability Concerns, and was named to the Metro Detroit Advisory Board of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy earlier this year. Axtell also serves on the Oakland County Republican Party Executive Committee.

Rep. Brandenburg, of Harrison Township, represents House District 24 in the Michigan state legislature, which includes St. Clair Shores, Harrison and Lake Townships.
 Rea, of Lincoln Park, is the vice-chair of the 13th District Republican Committee. She has served as a Dearborn victory center associate for President George W. Bush's 2004 campaign, as Lincoln Park city chair and Taylor victory center assistant to the director for the DeVos for Governor campaign, and is co-founder of the Wayne County Young Conservatives Club.
 LaMontaine, of Newport, is president of the Monroe County Deputy Sheriff's Association.

Runco, of Dearborn, has been a candidate for Michigan State Senate in the 6th District.

Simmons, of Saline, serves on the executive committee of the Washtenaw County Republican Committee.