(COLUMBIA) - Sen. Hillary Clinton unveiled her bold new plan to address the nation's energy and climate crisis Monday, following South Carolina legislators' and mayors' calls for Presidential candidates to address the issue of global warming.
Hillary's plan to establish a green, efficient economy and create as many as 5 million new jobs will reduce America's reliance on foreign oil and address the looming climate crisis. The plan is centered on a cap and trade system for carbon emissions, stronger energy and auto efficiency standards and a significant increase in green research funding.
"Hillary understands the issues we face in South Carolina. She values what we have to say and is committed to working with us to stem global climate change and to create new jobs based in the green-economy right here in South Carolina," Branchville Mayor Tim Cooner said.
Last week, Cooner was one of 100 South Carolina mayors who signed an open letter to the Presidential candidates to, "urge you [the candidates] to make solving climate change a top priority in your conversations with South Carolina voters. The mayors' action came on the heels of April letters from members of the State Legislature urging the candidates to address global warming."
Hillary did just that with her plan to transform our economy from carbon-based to clean and energy efficient, jumpstarting research and development through a $50 billion Strategic Energy Fund and doubling investment in basic energy research. She would also spur the green building industry by funding the retrofitting and modernization of 20 million low-income homes and take concrete steps to reduce electricity consumption, including enacting strict appliance efficiency standards and phasing out incandescent light bulbs.
"Hillary is setting ambitious goals and talking about an issue critical to our state," said Senator John Matthews, one of 21 Senators to sign the letter to Presidential candidates and one of Clinton's state co-chairs. "And she's approaching it in a way that could create an abundance of new jobs and industry here in South Carolina."
Recognizing that transportation accounts for 70 percent of U.S. oil consumption, Hillary would increase fuel efficiency standards to 55 miles per gallon by 2030, but would help automakers retool their production facilities through $20 billion in "Green Vehicle Bonds."
"I've worked extensively on the issues of community empowerment and environmental justice and I recognize the vision Hillary has," Representative Harold Mitchell, one of 88 Representatives to sign the House letter to candidates, said. "She gets it. We need her and we need this plan."
To view a full copy of Hillary's plan, visit 
.