MANCHESTER, NH - In a yet another demonstration of the growing support Senator Hillary Clinton is receiving throughout the Granite State, the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign today announced the names of 312 Educators for Hillary.
"Hillary Clinton has a clear understanding of the improvements that need to be made in our education system," Karen McDonough, former President of the National Education Association of New Hampshire and Co-chair of Education Leaders for Hillary. "She is actively working to establish universal pre-kindergarten, fully fund programs such as No Child Left Behind and Head Start, and make higher education accessible and affordable."
As an advocate, First Lady, and United States Senator, Hillary has fought to raise the education standards in our nation's schools. Hillary is committed to reforming No Child Left Behind (NCLB). In addition to fighting for full funding for NCLB, she is working to ensure the legislation supports early childhood education, improves teacher training, lowers class size, enhances parental involvement, eliminates environmental hazards in schools, and protects the programs that work for America's children.
Senator Clinton is also working actively to secure full funding for Head Start, a program that has helped prepare children to succeed in school by providing comprehensive services addressing all the barriers children in poverty face.
"I teach in a diverse, urban school and one of my greatest concerns is the health of my students," said Margie Moore, a teacher at Hillside Middle School in Manchester. "Senator Clinton knows that teachers will be more successful when their students are healthy. As president, she will not only improve education, she will ensure that all children have access to the health care they need."
Recently, Hillary proposed a plan to make college accessible and affordable for all Americans. By providing a $3,500 tuition tax credit-more than 50% of the cost of tuition at the average public institution-and increasing Pell grants, Hillary's plan will unlock the doors to higher education for millions of young Americans. In addition, Hillary will simplify the student aid process and strengthen incentives for students interested in public service.
"Senator Clinton has been working on education issues for 35 years," said, Linda Briolat who teaches fourth grade at the Little Harbour School in Portsmouth. "Not only does she have strong and sensible plans, I believe she is the one candidate who can deliver the real change our education system needs."
Hillary believes that investing in early childhood education is essential. Studies show that universal pre-kindergarten programs pay for themselves after nine years and produce a growing annual return in the years beyond. That is why Senator Clinton has proposed a plan to provide universal pre-kindergarten program to serve all of America's four-year-olds. Her plan would expand access to the more than 3 million 4-year-olds who are not enrolled in state pre-kindergarten programs. It would provide states with matching funds to devise their own programs and requiring that classes be taught by highly-trained teachers.
"I am honored to the have support of these men and women who have undertaken the critically important job of educating New Hampshire's children," said Senator Clinton. "With their help, I will continue working ensure that Americans have access to the quality education they deserve from early childhood on."
A complete list of Educators for Hillary follows.