Today in Newton, IA Hillary Clinton outlined the details of her plan to dramatically increase biofuels production in an effort tackle our energy and climate challenges. Boosting biofuels production is one of the key goals of Hillary's energy plan, which would increase production of corn ethanol, cellulosic ethanol, biodiesel and other biofuels to 36 billion gallons by 2022 and 60 billion gallons by 2030.
"Our nation's dependence on foreign oil places our economy at risk, our security in jeopardy, and our planet in peril. But I believe we can transform the way we use and produce energy - and create at least 5 million jobs in new green industries," Clinton said.
"Renewables like biodiesel can be the fuel for a brighter future. And when I'm president, they'll also fuel a 21st century green economy that helps us end our dependence on foreign oil and begin addressing the climate crisis. It's time for America to retake our title as the innovation nation and to launch a green energy revolution."
Biofuels are an essential part of Hillary's strategy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and catalyze a thriving renewables sector in the U.S. No state has proven the potential of biofuels more than Iowa, which leads the nation in biofuels output and is responsible for 32% of US ethanol capacity and 20% of biodiesel capacity. Biofuels production has helped create about 53,000 jobs in Iowa alone. Corn ethanol and biodiesel have fueled this rapid growth and Iowa is a leader in the emerging cellulosic industry as well.
Hillary's plan will expand biofuels in Iowa and across the country by providing new incentives for biofuel production, funding for advanced research, support for biofuel infrastructure, and new environmental guidelines and local ownership initiatives to ensure biofuels are produced in a sustainable manner. These steps will help displace gasoline consumption and create millions of good American manufacturing jobs that cannot be outsourced.
Yesterday in Cedar Rapids, Hillary Clinton outlined a comprehensive agenda to tackle our nation's twin challenges of energy independence and climate change. Her plan will aggressively reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% from 1990 levels by 2050, cut foreign oil imports by 66%, and transform our carbon-based economy into an efficient green economy, creating at least 5 million jobs from clean energy over the next decade.
To view Hillary's comprehensive plan to address our energy and climate crisis, 
.
America's biofuels industry has grown rapidly over the past two decades, from producing only 175 million gallons in 1980 to more than 5 billion gallons today. Iowa has been at the forefront of this movement, and has reaped substantial economic benefits. At the end of 2006, the state had 26 operating ethanol facilities and 8 biodiesel plants, with many more under construction. The industry is growing rapidly; when all current construction projects are completed, Iowa will have doubled its ethanol production capacity and tripled biodiesel capacity.