"Mitt Romney's latest political pandering proves yet again he is merely a candidate of convenience. Mitt's ever-changing positions and negative attacks scream of a losing candidate who has spent millions of his own money only to find Republican voters want something he cannot buy — true leadership."
— Katie Levinson, Communications Director
 (Hillary Clinton, Speech At Harvard's Kennedy School Of Government, Cambridge, MA, 10/4/96)
 ("For City Problems, Future Solutions," The Boston Globe, 3/1/98)
 (Adam Nagourney, "Hillary Clinton Vows To Fight To Preserve Abortion Rights," The New York Times, 1/22/00)
 ("Excerpt From Debate By Kennedy And Romney," The New York Times, 10/26/94)
 "As Governor, Mitt Romney would protect the current pro-choice status quo in Massachusetts. No law would change. The choice to have an abortion is a deeply personal one. Women should be free to choose based on their own beliefs, not the government's." (Romney For Governor Website, Accessed Via Internet Archive's Wayback Machine: 
, Accessed 6/18/07)
 (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks To The NYS Family Planning Providers, Washington, DC, 1/24/05)
 ("Excerpt From Debate By Kennedy And Romney," The New York Times, 10/26/94)
 (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks To The NYS Family Planning Providers, Washington, DC, 1/24/05)
 (Andrew Miga, "Romney Leans Toward Abort Rights Camp," Boston Herald, 5/19/94)
 (Steve Turnham, "Gunfight," CNN.com, 2/26/04)
 (Scott Helman, "Romney Retreats On Gun Control," The Boston Globe, 1/14/07)
 (Editorial, "Beware Of Those With Easy Answers," Boston Herald, 7/31/99)
 (Massachusetts Gubernatorial Candidates Debate, Springfield, MA, 9/24/02)
 CLINTON: "I'm in favor of comprehensive immigration reform, which includes tightening our border security, sanctioning employers who employ undocumented immigrants, helping our communities deal with the costs that come from illegal immigration, getting the 12 million or so immigrants out of the shadows. That's very important to me. After 9/11, we've got know who's in this country. And then giving them a chance to pay a fine, pay back taxes, learn English, and stand in line to be eligible for legal status in this country." (MSNBC's 2008 Democratic Primary Presidential Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
 "Romney said illegal immigrants should have a chance to obtain citizenship. 'I don't believe in rounding up 11 million people and forcing them at gunpoint from our country,' Romney said. 'With these 11 million people, let's have them registered, know who they are. Those who've been arrested or convicted of crimes shouldn't be here; those that are here paying taxes and not taking government benefits should begin a process towards application for citizenship, as they would from their home country.'" (Evan Lehmann, "Romney Supports Immigration Program, But Not Granting 'Amnesty,'" Lowell [MA] Sun, 3/30/06)
 (Sen. Hillary Clinton, "Statement Of Hillary Clinton On Veto Of Stem Cell Legislation," Press Release, 6/21/07)
 (Raja Mishra, "Romney Endorses Stem Cell Research," The Boston Globe, 6/14/02)
 (Hillary For President Website, "A Champion For Women," 
, Accessed 10/19/07)
 (Scott S. Greenberger, "Roe V. Wade Omitted From Proclamation," The Boston Globe, 3/25/05)
 (Phil Hirschkorn, "First Lady To Formally Announce Senate Candidacy In February," CNN.com, 
, 1/11/00)
 (Rick Klein, "The Gay Marriage Ruling Spotlight On The Governor," The Boston Globe, 11/20/03)
 (Paul Schindler, "A Conversation With Hillary Rodham Clinton," The Advocate, 
, 10/5/00, Accessed 10/19/07)
 "Shortly after he won the GOP nomination to run against US Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, conservative businessman Mitt Romney – who is viewed with suspicion by some gays – wrote to the Log Cabin Club, a group of politically active gay Republicans, to assure them that 'as we seek to establish full equality for America's gay and lesbian citizens, I will provide more effective leadership than my opponent.' The group has since endorsed Romney." (Don Aucoin, "Gays Split In Governor Race," The Boston Globe, 10/17/94)
 "The Romney campaign declined to respond either to the Democrats or Lakian, but issued a statement from Romney saying he respected 'all people regardless of their race, creed, or sexual orientation' and was committed to fighting 'discrimination of any kind.' Noting that he supported federal legislation banning any workplace discrimination against gays, Romney said he looked forward to meeting with groups or individuals to discuss his positions." (Scot Lehigh and Frank Phillips, "Romney Under Fire For Talk," The Boston Globe, 7/16/94)
 "One is a photograph of a pink flier that Romney aides distributed at a gay pride march in Boston in 2002. 'Mitt and Kerry wish you a great Pride Weekend!' the flier states. 'All citizens deserve equal rights, regardless of their sexual preference.'" (Michael Levenson, "Activist Rains On Romney's Parade," The Boston Globe, 1/22/07)
 (Greg McDonald, "Clinton Admits 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Policy For Gays In Military Failed," The Houston Chronicle, 12/12/99)
 "Clinton's don't ask/don't tell policy on gays in the military is a fine first step, Mitt muses, but must 'ultimately lead to gays and lesbians being able to serve openly and honestly in our nation's military.'" (Don Feder, Op-Ed, "Romney: A Thin-Gruel Republican," Boston Herald, 10/20/94)
 (Kenneth R. Bazinet, "Sen. Clinton Taking Soft Money, For Now," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 4/10/01)
 "During remarks before the Burlington (Mass.) Business Roundtable in 1994, Romney spoke like the committed reformers who later enacted sweeping national reforms in Congress. 'I understand Ted Kennedy will spend about $10 million to be reelected – he's been in 32 years, $10 million. I think that's wrong because – and that's not his own money, that's all from other people,' Romney said during the 1994 presentation, which was aired by C-SPAN. 'And to get that kind of money you've got to cozy up as an incumbent to all the special-interest groups who can go out and raise money for you from their members. And that kind of relationship has an influence on the way you're gonna vote.'" (Alex Bolton, "Romney's About-Face On Campaign Funding," The Hill, 2/8/07)
 (Frank Phillips, "Romney, Vowing To Live It, Touts Congress Reform Plan," The Boston Globe, 7/27/94)
 "Mr. Romney campaigned in favor of Clean Elections, which provides public money to candidates for state office who meet strict fund-raising requirements. But he suggested an alternative funding method. Instead of providing campaign funds from state coffers, his plan would tap 10 percent of the fund raising of candidates who choose to raise money privately." (Richard Nangle, "Clean Election Advocates Keep Pushing," [Worcester, MA] Telegram & Gazette, 11/14/02)
"
 (Rick Klein, "Voters Mix The Message On Clean Elections," The Boston Globe, 11/12/02)
 "The head of the state Democratic Party is challenging Republicans to limit campaign spending on legislative races between now and Election Day. … On Monday, Romney defended the GOP's fund-raising push and said if Democrats are worried, they should ramp up their own fund-raising efforts. 'It's no time for whining. It's time for going to work. We need both parties to work hard, raise their money and go out and support their candidates,' he said." (Steve LeBlanc, "Democratic Chief Challenges State GOP To Campaign Spending Limit," The Associated Press, 9/21/04)
 (Editorial, "Clinton's Investment Advice," The New York Sun, 10/11/07)
 "In other comments yesterday, Romney said he would not cut Social Security to meet his goal of balancing the federal budget. 'I don't think you go back and rewrite the contract the government has with people who've retired, but I do think there's a wide range of action we can take on entitlement programs: government pensions is one, our whole welfare system is another, and I think Medicare and Medicaid costs could be brought down by much more aggressive management.'" (Peter J. Howe, "Romney Recasts His Minimum-Wage Plan," The Boston Globe, 10/17/94)
 (Michael F. Cannon, "What Mitt And Hillary Have In Common," National Review, 6/5/07)
 (Michael F. Cannon, "What Mitt And Hillary Have In Common," National Review, 6/5/07)
 (Glen Johnson, "A Year Later, Some Conservatives Question Romney's Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 4/12/07)
 (Glen Johnson, "A Year Later, Some Conservatives Question Romney's Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 4/12/07)
 (Michael Tanner, "Ailing Party," National Review, 6/29/07
 "Key elements of Hillary Clinton's healthcare proposal are strikingly similar to the tenets of the health overhaul that Mitt Romney signed into law in Massachusetts last year. But you would never guess it from the broadsides he hurled yesterday against what he called 'Hillarycare 2.0' and described as 'a European-style socialized medicine plan.'" (Lisa Wangsness, "In Ways, Clinton Healthcare Plan Resembles Romney's Mass. Solution," The Boston Globe, 9/18/07)
 "'Hillary's plan is just like the Massachusetts plan. There's not a whole lot of difference,' said Jonathan Gruber, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology economics professor who was an adviser to Romney on the state's health care reform law." (Jason Szep, "Romney, Clinton Health Care Plans Similar – Experts," Reuters, 10/5/07)
 "Like Clinton's plan, the law Romney signed in April 2006 is underpinned by an 'individual mandate' compelling people to buy health insurance. Both plans entail subsidies and government regulations. For those in Massachusetts earning less than the federal poverty level of $9,800, free coverage is provided." (Jason Szep, "Romney, Clinton Health Care Plans Similar – Experts," Reuters, 10/5/07)
 "All the Democratic presidential candidates have plans for universal or near-universal health coverage. An issue that not long ago was regarded as toxic for the party – especially for Hillary Clinton, whose effort to reform healthcare during her husband's presidency was a debacle – is beginning to look poisonous for Republicans. As governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney implemented a scheme for universal coverage similar to what several Democrats are proposing." ("Reform Is Coming To US Healthcare," Financial Times, 10/1/07)
 "[Jonathan Gruber] also has consulted with the presidential campaigns of Sens. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and former senator John Edwards, among others." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)
 "The proposal, approved Tuesday by Massachusetts' Democratic-led Legislature, won Romney cautious praise from Democrats, including a longtime champion of health care overhaul: Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. 'To come up with a bipartisan plan in this polarized environment is commendable,' said the former first lady, who led President Clinton's failed health care campaign." (Ron Fournier, "Romney's Health Care Plan Draws Praise From Hillary Clinton, Talk Of '08 Bid," The Associated Press, 4/5/06)
 "A professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gruber was a key architect of the state's universal coverage law, which fully came into force on July 1. It was the top accomplishment of Republican Gov. Mitt Romney's administration. His basic idea is to take that approach nationwide. That would require a mandate that people get insurance but provide generous subsidies for the poor to get insured. Businesses that don't offer coverage would be penalized. Federal programs like Medicaid would be expanded." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)
 "[Jonathan Gruber] also has consulted with the presidential campaigns of Sens. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and former senator John Edwards, among others." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)