The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the Maryland Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Maryland, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week-long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Clinton said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the Maryland Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the Maryland Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
"I have had the great fortune to work closely with Hillary Clinton in the Senate, and have seen her commitment to issues of importance to Maryland's families," said Senator Barbara Mikulski, the first Democratic woman elected to the Senate in her own right who serves as a national chair of Hillary's campaign. "From universal heath care to ensuring our veterans have the benefits they deserve, to supporting parents and families, you can count on Hillary Clinton to stand up and lead the charge. I am proud to see the groundswell of support among women in Maryland."
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
Carolyn J.B. Howard, the Deputy Speaker Pro Tem of the Maryland House of Delegates, added, "Hillary is a leader with enthusiasm, intelligence, integrity, and the know-how to carry out the agenda of expanding opportunity for all people. She has the record of delivering for us on child care, health care, and other issues of importance, not only to women but to families. I admire and trust Hillary, and will work every spare moment to assure her success in becoming President of our great nation. Hillary is ready for the challenge."
The members of the Maryland Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.