McLean, VA - In a strong signal of growing organizational strength in the early primary state of South Carolina, Fred Thompson today announced his South Carolina Steering Committee. Chaired by Medal of Honor recipient Major General James E. Livingston, USMC (Ret.), the committee reflects the full spectrum of conservatives from across the state.
"Fred is proud to have this team of strong conservatives join him in his effort and looks forward to them playing an important role alongside Congressman Gresham Barrett and our entire regional and county leadership team," said Dean Rice, South Carolina Campaign Manager.
In accepting the chairmanship of the committee, Major General Livingston said, "These are very serious times and we need a president with moral credibility who can lead with authority on social, economic and national security fronts. We need a leader who can inspire our nation to rise to the challenges that face us and that leader is Fred Thompson."
Vice Chairs include Kirkman Finlay III of Columbia, Phyllis Henderson of Greenville, Ed McMullen of Columbia, Cyndi Mosteller of Charleston, Wendy Nanney of Greenville, and Randy Page of Lexington.
 is a member of the Columbia City Council. He is a noted businessman and entrepreneur in the Columbia area and a member of the Board of Carolina National Bank.
 is former Chair of Greenville County Council and an experienced Republican activist whose past work has included managing Jim DeMint's successful 1998 congressional campaign.
 is president of the South Carolina Policy Council Education Foundation. He served on the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education, as well as Governor Sanford's transition task force and as the Director of Development Research at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C.
 is the former Chair of the Charleston County Republican Party and former First Vice-Chair of the State Republican Party. In 2000, she was a National Advisor on Life Issues to the McCain for President campaign and is a past president of South Carolina Citizens for Life. She is also Governor Sanford's at-large appointee to the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education
 is the immediate past Chair of the Greenville County Republican Party, a well-respected Upstate Republican activist and alumnus of Bob Jones University.
 is president of South Carolinians for Responsible Government. Mr. Page has a long history of public service in the executive branch of state government, including as the former Chief of Staff to Lieutenant Governor Andre Bauer, and former member of Governor David Beasley's staff. Mr. Page is actively involved in a number of pro-family, pro-life organizations, including serving on the Board of the Palmetto Family Council. Randy is an alumnus of Bob Jones University.
Other members of the Steering Committee include: