 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 (Jason Spencer, "Yankee Governor With Southern Values' Backs Military And Attacks 'HillaryCare'," 
, 7/20/07)
 At a minimum, success means not leaving behind a safe haven in Iraq and Afghanistan for Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups, from which they can finance, train and launch devastating attacks on America, Israel, and the world. In Iraq, the Surge's success has been vital to ensuring that Al Qaeda is denied a safe haven from which to launch attacks.
 Across America, there are thousands of families with members in the Armed Forces, Reserves and National Guard who need more support from Washington.
 This will help provide the resources needed for equipment, modernization, training, treatment and care of our wounded soldiers.
 "Mitt Romney has called for adding 100,000 soldiers and boosting defense spending to four percent of GDP. These are sensible proposals, and we hope the other GOP candidates make similar ones." (Editorial, "Size Matters," 
, 4/16/07)
 To meet today's challenges, we must mobilize and integrate all elements of national power in unstable areas where traditional civilian agencies cannot operate effectively and traditional military power alone cannot succeed. The Special Partnership Force will integrate all elements of national power under a new force with leadership drawn from a core group of our Army Special Forces trained to work with civilian governments and intelligence personnel to form a new capability that is:
 While a new capability, this force draws on the lessons learned from a long history of successful efforts against terrorist and insurgent groups, including U.S. efforts under the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) in World War II, post-9/11 efforts in Afghanistan, and recent Special Forces efforts in the Philippines.
 While there is a threat of nuclear material from nations like Iran falling into the hands of terrorists, we must be vigilant in preventing terrorists and Jihadists from acquiring what are commonly known as "loose nukes." 
, Governor Romney proposed a comprehensive strategy to guard against this nuclear peril by:
 
, Governor Romney outlined a plan that will tighten economic sanctions against the Iranian regime, isolate Iran diplomatically and indict Iran's President Ahmadinejad for inciting genocide, enlist Arab states to join our efforts, make clear to the Iranian people the peril of acquiring nuclear capabilities, and maintain the military option.
 The Global Network will link intelligence and law enforcement capabilities around the world to share data about border crossings, biometric indicators, passport fraud, nuclear and biological threats, criminal patterns, human trafficking and drug trafficking.


 As President, Governor Romney will call together our Middle East allies and the major nations of the developed world to establish a Partnership for Prosperity and Progress. This Partnership will assemble the resources of all developed nations to assure that threatened Islamic states have public schools, micro-credit and banking, the rule of law, human rights, basic health care, and competitive economic policies. Resources would be drawn from public and private institutions, and from volunteers and NGOs.
 
, Governor Romney called for expanding NATO by making it a global alliance and expanding its mission to defeat radical Islam. Governor Romney proposes building regional alliances linked to a global NATO in areas like the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. These regional alliances will provide personnel with localized knowledge and cultural awareness to address emerging crises and threats.
 Building on the Goldwater-Nichols military reforms of the 1980s, we need bold new reforms to ensure that our civilian and inter-agency instruments of national power have the ability to build joint efforts. For example, just as the different military branches have divided the world into regions with a single commander for each, our civilian agencies should be united under a single Presidential envoy or Deputy for each region of the world. These Deputies will have clear lines of authority, budgets and responsibility to develop and execute regional plans and strategies.
 Many of our civilian national security and foreign policy structures were created decades ago. We need strengthened capabilities to strategically integrate all elements of national power in planning and budgeting, as was seen in the lack for strategic planning for post-war Iraq. The National Security Council (NSC) especially needs to be strengthened to achieve these goals. NSC staff must be empowered and accountable for reaching out to divergent viewpoints and challenging policies and proposals. To ensure that we are always prepared, we must constantly challenge bureaucratic "group think" and assumptions.


 He makes this guarantee because Israel is a key strategic ally in the global war against radical Jihadists, because of our respect for the Israeli people, and because the world has a moral obligation to this nation.
 Today, protecting the homeland must begin far from home. Intelligence and law enforcement efforts able to address threats before they reach our shores must be a priority for U.S. and international action. This will demand new U.S. capabilities, stronger international alliances and integration of our federal actions with international, state and local efforts.
 During the Clinton Administration, our intelligence community was critically weakened, the CIA workforce was slashed by almost 20% and recruitment reduced dramatically. We have started to restore resources, but Washington's response has focused on creating a new, expanded and duplicative Washington bureaucracy in the Directorate of National Intelligence. We need to eliminate duplicative efforts, revitalize recruitment and prioritize efforts in the field, expanding human intelligence
 The Patriot Act has given our men and women in the law enforcement and intelligence communities the tools they need to defend America. Their work is aided immensely by the provisions in the Patriot Act.
 Our most basic civil liberty is the right to be kept alive and Governor Romney will use every tool at our disposal to keep America safe.
 Governor Romney believes we must enforce our laws, secure our border, put in place an enforceable employment verification system, and provide no special pathway to citizenship for those here illegally.
 Energy independence is vital to our national defense and our economic security. We should never expose our nation to the economic blackmail of terrorist sponsoring states like Iran or tyrants like Venezuela's Chavez. Governor Romney has called for a bold and far-reaching research initiative to create new, economic sources of clean energy. We must invest in renewable and alternative fuels such as ethanol, cellulosic ethanol, biodiesel, and liquefied coal. American resolve and investment are essential for energy security and national security.
To read more about Governor Romney's agenda to change Washington, please click on the 
 , a compilation of his policy proposals for conservative change and to meet the new generation of challenges confronting our nation. Since January 2007, Governor Romney has outlined more than 50 different policy proposals. From defeating violent Jihadists to protecting traditional values, Governor Romney believes we can build a stronger America by taking Washington apart and putting it back together based on conservative principles that strengthen our national defense, our economy and our families.