 The request ensures that U.S. military forces will remain protected, well-equipped, and ready for future operations; supports ongoing military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan; provides care for Wounded Warriors and their families; supports diplomacy and development in Iraq and Afghanistan; and provides economic, security, and humanitarian assistance for urgent needs around the world.
 In response to a bipartisan call, the Administration included the request in the President's FY08 budget. Detailed justifications for FY07 and FY08 were provided to Congress and the public on government websites.
 Today's request is based upon the findings of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker. In September, they reported that conditions on the ground in Iraq had improved, but more funding was needed to continue this progress. In testimony before Congress, Defense Secretary Robert Gates provided lawmakers with the expected total cost of the war for 2008.
Department of Defense (includes classified activities)
$147.0
$42.3
$189.3
Department of State and other international operations
3.3
3.6
6.9
Other agencies
Total
$150.5
$45.9
$196.4
 The President is committed to protecting our men and women in uniform. The amendment requests additional funding of $14.1 billion.
 The President is committed to providing our troops with the resources and equipment they need.
 $1 billion for military construction projects in theater, including airfield improvements, roads, hardening of buildings, and other mission critical facilities that protect U.S. forces and support their operations.
 $5.4 billion to fill Army equipment shortfalls and to enhance training of next-to-deploy units.
 $8.8 billion to refurbish or replace worn-out or damaged equipment in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 The President is committed to ensuring that servicemembers and their families receive the best possible care and support.
 $561 million to address the additional extraordinary security and operating costs associated with supporting U.S. diplomatic and reconstruction activity in Iraq and Afghanistan.
 $25 million to initiate a new enterprise fund that will help Iraqi-owned firms access the capital that they need, and $100 million to re-start state-owned enterprises in Iraq to create jobs.
 $160 million to provide basic health services and education for Iraqi refugees in Syria, Jordan, and Lebanon; and $80 million to provide emergency relief supplies, health care, and water and sanitation infrastructure to people displaced in Iraq.
 