 The Patuxent Research Refuge is part of the National Wildlife Refuge System, which plays an important role in America's bird conservation efforts. To improve America's long-term protections for migratory birds, the President will discuss a series of steps to help ensure we are practicing cooperative conservation beyond the boundaries of our national parks and wildlife refuges.
 With this policy, landowners who improve habitat for birds and other species will earn recovery credits that they can sell. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service organized a pilot project using this approach to conserve warblers and vireos in Texas, and this new policy will formalize this practice for recovering species.
 These easements are charitable contributions of valuable property rights to ensure the long-term preservation of habitat.
 To be effective in protecting migratory bird habitats, we must measure to ensure we have the best possible data about our bird populations. Accordingly, this report will chart our progress, identify species that need additional protections, and help us bring more of America's bird species into a healthy and sustainable status.
 In addition, we are setting a goal to restore an additional 200,000 acres by 2009.
 Under the National Parks Centennial Initiative, the Administration will raise $3 billion in additional public and private funding for improvements in our national parks. This money will help in the creation and restoration of a variety of wildlife habitats, including some that directly benefit birds.
 There are 18 Joint Ventures now underway and because of their success, next year we will add three more partnerships to help conserve birds along the Rio Grande corridor, in the Appalachian Mountains, and on the Northern Great Plains. Each Joint Venture consists of a team of biologists and land managers who make sure that all bird conservationists in a particular region are working toward common goals to design and carry out habitat improvements.
 This includes the Wetlands Reserve Program, Conservation Reserve Program, Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program, and Grasslands Reserve Program. Each program is helping preserve and restore migratory bird wetlands habitat to its original natural condition by emphasizing soil, water, and other natural resources on private lands.
 The Secretaries of State, the Interior, and Commerce are working with the Mexican government, governors from both countries, and non-governmental partners to undertake important habitat projects in Mexico.
 The President has committed $4 million for Fiscal Year 2007 funds to begin implementing projects to support conservation initiatives in Laguna Madre, Marismas Nacionales, Chiapas, Yucatan Peninsula, and the Chihuahuan Desert Grasslands (Janos and Saltillo). Working with local communities, the projects will support birds that migrate between Mexico and the United States by:
 This is a multilateral agreement that seeks to conserve albatrosses and petrels by coordinating international activity to mitigate known threats to these populations.