COLUMBUS, OH - Today, Senator Hillary Clinton participates in a "Solutions for the American Economy" town hall at the Community Education and Workforce Development Center at Columbus State College. At the town hall she will release her "Jobs Agenda" for Ohio workers and families. She will be joined by four people who will share their own stories of triumph in the face of economic challenge, hard work and support of a new "green" economy.
"We need to get real about America's future and move from good words to good works, from sound bites to sound solutions," said Senator Clinton. "The American people need a champion in their corner. I will listen to their voices and work my heart out for families across the country and people like the ones who joined me today."
At the age of 29, 
 was a bartender, working nights when he broke his wrist and he didn't have healthcare. After that experience and nearly losing everything, Jason started looking into Columbus State College and signed up for the Construction Management Program. He is now an Assistant Project Manager overlooking the rebuilding and construction of elementary, middle and high schools in Newark, OH.
Jason's construction projects have all started to include energy efficient materials, insulation and monitoring systems to measure how much energy is leaving the buildings.
, also joined Hillary today. The Program of Sustainable design is the only one of its kind in central Ohio. It has been running for two years and roughly a dozen students have enrolled. The students who have participated in the program have included architects, manufacturers, and construction management students.
Tom has witnessed a surge in focus on energy efficiency in manufacturing, construction and architecture and believes people are becoming more and more aware of the importance and benefits of "going green." One particular course offered focuses on energy systems and how they function in the long run and how they should be approached to ensure energy efficiency.
 talked with Hillary about their lives working hard to raise 12 children together including their 20-year-old daughter Belinda, who attends Columbus State. Wally retired as an electrician with IBEW Local 683 after a near fatal heart attack that left him in a coma for four days. He worked as an electrician for 30 years and was a leader in his union. Pam is a Patient Financial Specialist at Mt. Carmel Health System in Columbus, OH. She processes applications for the patients who do not have health insurance.
With our economy slipping into recession, American workers and families need a President ready to fight for their economic interests from day one. Americans need a President who will fight for good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. that cannot be outsourced. The unemployment rate in Ohio is 6.0%, up more than 13% from a year ago. The state has lost more than 200,000 manufacturing jobs since the Bush Administration took office, and across the country we have lost more than 3 million manufacturing jobs. Hillary has a comprehensive plan to create good jobs here in the U.S., train and equip our workers for the 21st century, and revitalize America's manufacturing industry.