 Congress should demonstrate their support for security in the Western Hemisphere and a level playing field for American products, work with the Administration to bring legislation to implement the Colombia agreement to the floor for approval, and then send it to the President's desk to be signed into law.
 He has:
 Since 2002, kidnappings have dropped 83 percent, terrorist attacks have dropped 76 percent, and murders have dropped 40 percent. With Colombian support and commitment, our rule of law and counterdrug assistance will continue to make a difference.
 Since 2002, poverty has decreased by almost 20 percent, and unemployment is at its lowest level in a decade. Roads are now open, displaced farmers are returning to their lands, and economic growth topped 6.8 percent in 2007, the highest in eight years.
 Colombia has established a police presence in each of its 1,099 municipalities, which has secured 187 primary and secondary roads throughout the country, freeing Colombians to use these roads. As a result, traffic along these roads has doubled since 2002, and commerce is flowing between areas that were once virtually cut off due to violence.
 These efforts took 500 metric tons of cocaine off the market in 2006 alone, depriving terrorist groups of $850 million in funds to buy arms and mount attacks. In addition, the Colombian government has extradited more than 550 narcotics traffickers and terrorists to the United States over the past five years.
 The more than $5 billion the United States has provided to the program has helped to defeat narco terrorists and eliminate illegal activity. It is also providing developmental and humanitarian assistance. This partnership can only succeed in the long run, however, if Colombia can create jobs for the tens of thousands of combatants who have demobilized and the hundreds of thousands of citizens that have been displaced by armed groups. The free trade agreement can help Colombia create those jobs and bolster continued success.
 Mayors have returned to their towns, and public school enrollment has increased to 92 percent. The child mortality rate has decreased dramatically thanks to economic growth and increasing wages that enable more people to provide adequate health and nutritional care for their children. The number of tourists visiting Colombia has doubled in the last five years.
 Trade between the United States, Mexico, and Canada has more than tripled, and all three countries' economies have grown by more than 50 percent. The U.S. unemployment rate has been much lower than in recent decades, and workers, farmers, and entrepreneurs have seen real improvements in their daily lives.
 The U.S. is prepared to lead to ensure the Doha Round reaches a successful conclusion this year but will not make unilateral concessions to advance the negotiations while others refuse to come forward with their own meaningful contributions. A Doha agreement would open up markets for American goods, crops, and services, create new opportunities for developed and developing nations alike, and lift millions from poverty.
 Isolationist policies could:
 U.S. exports to all 14 FTA countries have grown nearly 40 percent faster than U.S. exports to the rest of the world. The President calls on Congress to help keep our economy growing by passing important pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea.
 The President believes the Federal government has a role to play in helping workers displaced by trade to our dynamic economy. Reforming the TAA program is needed to help workers obtain the skills and assistance they need to transition to good jobs.
 Panama has one of the fastest-growing economies in Central America, with a growth rate of more than eight percent last year.
 It will also provide significant new duty-free access for American farmers and ranchers and ensure opportunities for American businesses to participate in the Panama Canal expansion project. It will also provide new market access for U.S. service suppliers, including in Panama's key financial services sector.
 This agreement would support higher-paying jobs in both countries and strengthen our relationship with a key democratic ally in a critical part of the world. The President urges Congress to act quickly to approve this agreement.
 The U.S.-Korean alliance was forged in war more than a half century ago. The KORUS FTA will strengthen that alliance with shared prosperity.