Fighting to give every child the chance to live up to his or her god given potential is the cause of Hillary's life. It is the reason she entered public service as a young staff attorney working for Marian Wright Edelman at the Children Defense Fund. It has been a driving force behind her commitment to serving her country for the past 35 years. But when nearly 13 million children go to sleep every night living in poverty, it offends the core notion of America as a land of opportunity. Despite our country's wealth, the U.S. has the highest rate of child poverty among all industrialized countries.
Today, Hillary is offering a plan to address this blight on our nation's conscience and our economic future. She announced two bold new goals an ambitious agenda to deliver real solutions for children in poverty and their families. Hillary's plan will move America towards:
To achieve these goals, Hillary will:
Today, 12.9 million children live in poverty and roughly five million children live in extreme poverty - that is, in families with incomes of less than half the poverty level. Child poverty has actually increased under the Bush Administration. Poverty is especially prevalent among African-American and Latino children. One third of all African American children and 28% of all Latino children live in poor families, compared with 10% of white children. Nevertheless, 35% of all poor children are white, making them the largest group of children living in poverty. And while we celebrate America as a place where an individual's circumstances of birth should not determine his or her life chances, the fact is that economic mobility is now in decline in America. Children born in poverty are likely to live in poverty their whole lives. A Pew Charitable Trusts study found that the United States now has less economic mobility than most advanced nations. The policy initiatives outlined below are designed to restore America's commitment to economic mobility and give every child a chance in life.
 Across the country, communities and states are overcoming odds and finding innovative ways to reduce child poverty and strengthen families' economic circumstances. Yet too often these programs remain isolated in one region or community because there is neither the capital nor the communication necessary to bring them to scale. To address this issue, Hillary will create a $1 billion Child Opportunity Fund, which will identify and invest in the most promising practices and apply rigorous evaluation approaches to ensure tangible results. The fund will be designed as a public-private partnership. The government will leverage federal dollars by soliciting contributions from private sources and requiring that states provide a match for projects supported through the Child Opportunity Fund. And the fund will be run based on social venture capital principles, challenging promising programs to go to scale and produce real results.
 12.4 million children in America - 17% of all children - live in households considered to be food insecure. Research shows that preschool and school-aged children who experience severe hunger have higher levels of chronic illness, anxiety, depression, and behavior problems than children with no hunger. 
 She will recommend several steps to achieve toward that goal, including:
 Hillary knows that the only way we are going to give every child a chance in life is to start them out right. As president, she'll launch a major Zero-to-Five initiative that includes:
 In order to address child poverty, we have to strengthen the economic circumstances and provide greater opportunities for children's parents and caregivers. Hillary will enact a series of economic policies that will reward work, make work pay, and help every worker earn enough to support themselves and their families by:
 Individual responsibility also plays a role in overcoming economic circumstances. As President, Hillary will adopt policies that create incentives for people to make smart decisions that lead them to be better prepared to take care of their families by:
    
A Commitment to Fiscal Discipline: Hillary will finance her Child Poverty Agenda without increasing the deficit by taking common sense steps to close the tax gap - the tens of billions of dollars in owed taxes that go uncollected each year. Specifically, Senator Clinton would increase third-party reporting of capital gains and improve tax compliance by requiring credit and debit card companies to report reimbursement payments made to merchants.