 This report, available at 
, offers a portrait of the successful implementation of President Bush's vision to reshape government's approach to addressing human need. By leveling the playing field for faith-based charities and strengthening grassroots nonprofits to effectively help Americans in need, the Faith-Based and Community Initiative is having a tremendous impact on countless lives across our Nation and around the world.
 For example, through initiatives such as the voucher-based Access to Recovery program, the Administration is working to expand individual choice so that Americans in need of substance abuse treatment and recovery support services can receive help from the program that best suits them. In addition, the Compassion Capital Fund, another signature program of the Initiative, is helping small, grassroots organizations that have never received Federal funding build the capacity they need to compete for Federal grants and serve their communities.
 Twelve of these States have changed Governors, some across party lines, but not one has ended its office Faith-Based and Community efforts.
 For example, California does not currently have an official Initiative, but in 2006, its nonprofits won more than 1,550 competitive Federal grants totaling nearly $1.1 billion dollars to serve their neighbors in need.
 
 The Initiative has:
 This Order charged the office with leading a "comprehensive effort to enlist, equip, enable, empower, and expand the work of faith-based and other community organizations." The President has since established Centers for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives at 11 Federal agencies, where they are successfully strengthening partnerships with these grassroots organizations and implementing the FBCI vision within their agency's human service programs.
 Over the past 7 years, the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives and the Agency Centers it oversees have worked to strengthen both faith-based and community organizations and to extend their work in partnership with government.
 In 3 short years, hundreds of communities have participated in regional 
 conferences, which have helped identify best practices and spotlighted the successful efforts of such youth-serving programs as a leadership camp for fatherless boys, gang-prevention programs, and faith-based after-school programs.
 In 2007 alone, approximately 2,213 partners, or 81 percent of partners in PEPFAR's 15 focus countries were indigenous organizations – nearly one-quarter of which were faith-based. These partners have supported 15,000 project sites for prevention, treatment, and care.