With families in Ohio and across America falling further into debt than ever before, Hillary Clinton highlighted her comprehensive plan to ensure fair access to credit on reasonable terms and to help Americans get back on their feet. Today, hardworking families are struggling to cope with spiraling household debt. Middle-class Ohioans dealing with resetting mortgages and rising health care, college, and energy costs are depending on credit cards just to stay afloat:
To make matters worse, recent news accounts reveal that credit card companies and banks are imposing sudden rate hikes and fee increases on many customers to cover their own losses in the mortgage market. Banks are also imposing heftier ATM and cash-advance fees, further squeezing American families. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve's recent rate cuts were expected to make credit cheaper for American consumers. But even as the Federal Reserve cut rates sharply, the average variable rate on credit cards has dropped less than a point. Hillary believes that hardworking families that are struggling should not face the added burden of abusive credit card policies.
For three decades now, credit card companies and major banks have been subject to less and less regulation. Most state regulations today do not apply to credit card companies, and federal law sets few restrictions on what they can do. To help reverse these trends and protect American families, Hillary's Fair Credit for Families Agenda will:
 According to a Government Accountability Office survey of 28 credit cards issued by the nation's leading banks, up to a quarter of them charged penalty rates over 30 percent. And African Americans, Hispanics, single women, and low-income families are most likely to be saddled with high interest rates. To rein in already extreme rates – and to ensure that rates climb no higher – Hillary's plan will immediately impose a national annual interest rate cap of 30 percent on all credit cards. Such a cap would cover not just the stated credit card interest rate, but the effective rate. She will then direct the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to make recommendations on a lower interest rate cap linked to a standard benchmark, plus a margin to provide for a reasonable profit. This cap would not preempt lower state law caps.
 Professor Elizabeth Warren notes that credit products are "regulated by a tattered patchwork of federal and state laws that have failed to adapt to changing markets." [Democracy, 2007.] And there is currently minimal enforcement against abusive practices. In 2004, consumers filed 17,000 complaints about credit cards with the Better Business Bureau. But the OCC, the FDIC, and the Office of Thrift Supervision have undertaken only a handful of enforcement actions relating to unfair or deceptive lending practices. To ensure that the government is fulfilling its responsibility to protect the public from predatory financial products, Hillary will establish a Financial Product Safety Commission as a counterpart to the Consumer Product Safety Commission. The new agency will oversee lending banks and financial institutions, establish a set of fair rules and guidelines for financial products - including disclosure and reporting rules - and develop new protections against predatory and abusive lending practices. It will have a hand in shaping and implementing the rules described in this agenda. Hillary will streamline federal oversight and enforcement beyond the new FPSC, and give states concurrent enforcement authority against national banks for violations of federal law.
 Last year, the Senate heard testimony from an Ohio man whose $3,200 credit card debt grew to $10,700 with interest and fees, even though he made payments averaging $1,000 a year over six years. Under Hillary's plan:
 Credit card late charges have nearly tripled since 1994, and the industry's revenues from penalty fees grew from $1.7 billion in 1996 to $17 billion in 2005. [Wilmarth House subcommittee testimony, 2007.] Fair and simple rules are needed so hardworking Americans do not fall victim to heavy penalties just because a deadline wasn't clear. Hillary's plan will develop uniform rules for credit card payment deadlines. For example, customers should not be unfairly penalized if their payments are postmarked by the due date the lender provides. Hillary will also guarantee a grace period before penalty rates apply, and she will direct the FPSC to create fair and reasonable rules for when over-limit fees apply. An Ohio man was hit with over-limit fees 47 times even though he exceeded his limit only 3 times. [Wannemacher Senate subcommittee testimony, 2007.]
 American families received an estimated 8 billion credit card solicitations in 2006, many making false promises of affordable loans. During the same time, the credit card industry reportedly collected $97 billion in interest charges and $18 billion in penalty fees. [CardTrak, 2008]
We have seen a rise in exploitative credit products such as payday loans and refund anticipation loans ("RALs"). In 1996, there were only 107 licensed payday lenders in Ohio. Today, there are more than 1,500 – more payday lending locations than McDonalds, Burger King, and Wendy's restaurants combined. [Policy Matters Ohio, 2007.] The average annual interest rate on a payday loan in Ohio is 391 percent. Nationwide, payday lenders earned $4.2 billion in excessive loan fees in 2005. [Center for Responsible Lending, 2006.] A refund anticipation loan gives a taxpayer a short-term cash advance, using the person's anticipated federal tax refund as collateral. Americans paid $960 million in finance charges associated with refund anticipation loans. [Consumer Federation, 2007.] Many middle-class and low-income families – especially those without access to basic financial services – have fallen victim to a thriving trade that reaps profits by lending Americans their own money at high interest rates. To address this challenge, Hillary will:
 In 2006, some 25,000 payday loan outlets collected $40 billion in annual revenue. These lenders demand a signed check postdated for the borrower's next payday in exchange for a small cash loan, often trapping them into rolling over their loans at rates upwards of 400%. In fact, the average payday borrower pays back roughly $800 on a $325 loan. [Consumer Affairs, 2007.] In 2006, Congress acted to protect servicemembers from abusive payday loans by capping interest rates. Hillary's plan will extend and strengthen this measure by capping the effective interest rate on all payday loans at 30 percent in accordance with the national rate cap.
 States have enacted a variety of limits on payday lenders. For example, Florida stops borrowers from taking more than one payday loan at a time, and it enforces this law through a central data reporting system that lenders must use; Illinois insists on a waiting period before additional payday loans may be issued. The Ohio legislature is currently considering measures to curb abusive payday lending through interest rate caps and other consumer protections, including a limit of 6 loans per year and a one-time extended payment option. Despite these state efforts, some payday stores have argued that federal law allows them to avoid complying with state rules. Hillary will once and for all stop payday lenders from circumventing state consumer protection laws.
 Effective interest rates on refund anticipation loans often run into the triple digits, and sometimes as high as 700 percent. Low-income Americans are hardest hit. According to the IRS, in 2005, 83 percent of RAL users had incomes of less than $35,000. In 2006, over 60 percent of RAL consumers were recipients of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), even though EITC beneficiaries comprised only 17 percent of all taxpayers. To curb the proliferation of RAL loans, Hillary will:
 In a 2004 survey on personal financial literacy, high school seniors answered only half the questions correctly; two-thirds of them failed the exam. Nor does financial literacy seem to improve later in life: the average American scored 42% on a personal finance quiz, and less than 10% answered more than three-quarters of the questions correctly. Hillary will:
 In 2002, 56 million Americans - including, by some estimates, a full quarter of low-income families - did not have either a checking or savings account. Families today spend $8 billion a year obtaining basic financial services that many Americans take for granted. Minorities are especially hard hit by payday lenders and cash-checking operators. In California, for example, a full quarter of Latino and African-American households lack a checking account. To promote greater access to basic financial services and help families trapped in a vicious cycle of credit card debt, Hillary will: