 The President and Mrs. Bush are scheduled to leave tomorrow on a five-nation trip to Africa, with stops in Benin, Tanzania, Rwanda, Ghana, and Liberia. They will review firsthand the significant progress since the President's last visit in 2003 in efforts to accelerate economic development and fight global HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other treatable diseases, as a result of the United States' robust programs. The President will meet with the leaders of these five nations to discuss how the United States can continue to partner with African countries to support sustained democratic reform, respect for human rights, free trade, open investment regimes, and economic opportunity across the continent.
 Too many nations continue to follow either the paternalistic notion that treats African countries as charity cases, or a model of exploitation that seeks to buy up their resources. America rejects both approaches. The United States is treating the leaders of Africa as equal partners, asking them to set clear goals, and expecting them to produce measurable results. Together, Africa's leaders and the United States are working to pioneer a new era in development on the African continent.
 These funds will mobilize $875 million in capital for the continent. This is in addition to $750 million in investment capital that will be mobilized by OPIC Funds announced by the Administration last November, bringing the total to more than $1.6 billion.
 This Compact will benefit 4.8 million Tanzanians.
 This treaty will promote investment by providing legal protections for U.S. and Rwandan investors that underscore the two countries' shared commitment to open investment and trade policies.
 On all three trips, Mrs. Bush highlighted the partnership between the U.S. and Africa to expand education, empower women, and fight against diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria. During her trip last summer, for example, Mrs. Bush visited three programs supported by the President's Africa Education Initiative, as well as programs receiving assistance from PEPFAR and PMI. She announced the distribution of hundreds of thousands of new textbooks to children in Senegal, announced the first grant through PMI to the Inter-Religious Campaign against malaria in Mozambique, and launched the first U.S. Government-funded PlayPump in Zambia, which uses the energy of children at play to help provide access to clean water. Mrs. Bush has also participated in roundtable discussions on women's empowerment in several African countries to highlight the Administration's steadfast commitment to justice for women.
 This Initiative provides 100 percent debt relief from the major International Financial Institutions to the world's poorest, most heavily indebted countries. It has reduced a total of $42 billion in debt to date – $34 billion of which was for 19 African countries. Over time, a total of 33 African countries could receive full debt relief. The U.S. also secured reforms with the International Financial Institutions aimed at preventing the re-accumulation of unsustainable debt.
 To date, the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) has signed seven compacts with African countries totaling $2.4 billion to fight poverty through economic growth.
 In 2007, AGOA exports to the U.S. totaled over $50 billion – more than six times the level in 2001, the first full year of AGOA. During the same period, U.S. exports to sub-Saharan Africa have doubled, totaling over $14 billion.
 This will strengthen financial markets, mobilize domestic and foreign investment, and help spur job creation and economic growth. To date, OPIC had supported several investment funds that are mobilizing roughly $1.3 billion in private investment for the continent.
 Four regional Global Competitiveness Hubs are the primary implementers of AGCI and are located in Ghana and Senegal for West Africa, Botswana for Southern Africa and Kenya for East and Central Africa.
 This assistance is helping African governments to reduce barriers to trade and African businesses, workers, and farmers to benefit more fully from global trade.
 The United States' humanitarian food aid totaled more than $1.7 billion in FY 2007, and our emergency food aid reached about 23 million people in 30 countries.
 By 2010, AEI will have distributed over 15 million textbooks, trained nearly one million teachers, and provided 550,000 scholarships for girls.
 PEFPAR is the largest international health initiative in history to fight a single disease. Through this program, the U.S. is partnering with local African communities and organizations, including faith- and community-based organizations, to support HIV/AIDS treatment, care, and prevention activities.
 The President has challenged the private sector to join the fight against malaria, and it is estimated that the PMI has already reached 25 million people in Sub-Saharan Africa.
 PEPFAR, PMI, and other U.S.-funded efforts represent massive-scale implementation of the President's vision for his Faith-Based and Community Initiative by empowering these organizations in their determined attack on need.
 The President urges neighbors in the region – including South Africa – to work for an end to the suffering in Zimbabwe, where a discredited dictator presides over food shortages, staggering inflation, and harsh repression.
 The U.S. has trained over 80 percent of African peacekeepers who are currently deployed in African Union and United Nations missions both inside and outside of Africa. The U.S. is partnering with the AU and member states to support the establishment of an African Standby Force.
 In the past four years alone, there have been more than 50 democratic elections in Africa, and more than two-thirds of Sub-Saharan African nations live in freedom. President Bush continues to support democratic transitions in many African countries such as Liberia and Mauritania, strengthening democratic institutions in post-conflict countries, such as the DRC and Burundi, and assisting civil society organizations across Africa in combating gender-based violence, trafficking in persons, and other human rights violations. In FY 2007, the U.S. provided close to $175 million for programs to promote just and democratic governance in African nations.
 In October 2007, with support from PMI, the Government of Benin launched one of the largest anti-malaria campaigns designed to reach all children under the age of five. Throughout the campaign, more than 1.6 million bed nets were distributed.
 The compact is expected to affect an estimated five million beneficiaries and directly lift 250,000 Beninese out of poverty by the year 2015.
 Through AEI, more than one million textbooks and learning materials have been provided. The Ambassador's Girls' Scholarship Program has supported 3,400 girls in Benin.
 With approximately 6.5 percent of the adult population HIV positive, PEPFAR is helping to deliver anti-retroviral treatments to over 96,000 Tanzanians. Roughly 1.1 million pregnant women have received mother-to-child HIV transmission prevention services to date. Last year, Tanzania launched a National HIV/AIDS Testing Campaign. President Kikwete and the first lady of Tanzania were the first to be tested.
 To date, PMI has provided spraying operations that have protected nearly 170,000 residents, procured and disbursed nearly 700,000 treatments of artemisinin-based combination therapies, and provided roughly 1.8 million bed net vouchers targeting infants and pregnant women.
 President Kikwete has been outspoken in his support of a UN peacekeeping mission in Sudan. The U.S. is helping to train several battalions of peacekeepers that are expected to be ready to deploy to Darfur by the summer of 2008.
 The United States has trained nearly 7,000 Rwandan troops and spent more than $17 million to equip and transport Rwandan troops for service in Sudan. Rwanda continues to be a strong regional voice for greater and stronger international involvement in ending the genocide in Darfur.
 Roughly 650,000 pregnant women have received mother-to-child HIV transmission prevention services, which have helped to avert infant infections. U.S. funding for HIV/AIDS in Rwanda has grown from $39 million in FY04 to $103 million in FY07.
 PMI programs are projected to distribute 450,000 long-lasting insecticide treated bed nets, spray roughly 85 percent of Rwandan homes, and distribute over 900,000 artemisinin-based combination therapies.
 In December 2007, the U.S. supported Ghana's Health Services National Malaria Control program, and helped launch a bed net re-treatment campaign that aims to re-treat 275,000 bed nets by the end of 2008.


 Through the earlier African Education Initiative more than 98,000 teachers have received training, and 6,300 girls have received scholarships and mentoring in Ghana.
 The program is expected to directly alleviate the poverty of over 230,000 Ghanaians and enhance the welfare of one million Ghanaians in total.
 The Liberian government has taken significant steps to correct past human rights deficiencies – including working to reform the justice sector, combating corruption and promoting good governance, and establishing a Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate and document human rights violations and war crimes committed during Liberia's civil war.
 As a major contributor to Liberia's Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP), USAID is working in partnership with the administration of President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf to improve management of its public finances and combat corruption. In collaboration with GEMAP, the U.S. provided over $22.2 million in 2007 for programs to promote just and democratic governance in Liberia.
 Through the earlier Africa Education Initiative more than 800,000 textbooks have been provided to support learning for war-affected youth. The Ambassador's Girls' Scholarship program has supported 2,700 girls with scholarships in Liberia.
 These funds support the recruitment, training, and equipping of the Armed Forces of Liberia. The U.S. is also working to reform the national police, including the creation of a 500-person Emergency Response Unit.