 The U.S. economy is structurally sound for the long term, but growth has slowed. To address short-term economic uncertainties, the President last month called on Congress to pass an economic growth package that is robust, temporary, and puts money back into the hands of American workers and businesses. The President thanks members of both parties for passing good legislation that meets these criteria. The bill the President signed today:
 The growth plan provides rebates to 128 million American households. Payments will go out through late spring and summer so we can get help to our economy when it is needed most. Under the legislation:
 The legislation would save businesses approximately $50 billion in near-term taxes through a temporary change to the tax code that will allow American businesses that buy new equipment this year to deduct an additional 50 percent of the cost of their investment in 2008. This will encourage businesses to expand and create new jobs now because buying equipment, software, and tangible property this year will dramatically lower their taxes.
 Project Lifeline offers, where appropriate, to "pause" the foreclosure process for 30 days while other longer-term solutions are explored.
 HOPE NOW is a cooperative effort among mortgage counselors, servicers, investors, and lenders to maximize outreach efforts to struggling homeowners in distress and to help homeowners refinance into a new mortgage or receive a modification. HOPE NOW membership now covers over 90 percent of the subprime mortgage market. There is more work to do, and HOPE NOW will continue to add new resources to help homeowners, but a lot of progress has been made since the formation of HOPE NOW just over four months ago:
 expands the FHA's ability to offer refinancing by giving it the flexibility to work with homeowners who have good credit histories but cannot afford their current payments. Just last week, HUD started sending out letters to more than 850,000 targeted homeowners, urging them to consider refinancing high cost subprime loans with FHA. Since 
 was announced, the program has received more than 200,000 applications and helped more than 90,000 families refinance their homes. Many more of these pending applications will be approved in the coming months, and FHA expects this program to help more than 300,000 families in total by the end of the year.
 This Act created a three-year window for homeowners to refinance their mortgage and pay no Federal taxes on any debt forgiveness they receive.
 This bill will give FHA the necessary flexibility to help hundreds of thousands of additional families qualify for prime-rate financing.
 Under current law, housing agencies can issue tax-exempt bonds to finance new mortgages for first-time homebuyers, but States are unable to do the same for homeowners seeking to refinance. This legislation would also temporarily raise the issuance cap on mortgage revenue bonds.
 GSEs provide liquidity to the mortgage market that benefits millions of homeowners, and it is vital that they operate safely and soundly. The President has called on Congress to pass legislation that strengthens independent regulation of the GSEs and ensures they focus on their important housing mission.
 The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are set to expire in less than three years. If Congress allows that to happen, 116 million taxpayers will see their taxes go up by $1,800 on average, and we will see an end to many of the measures that have helped our economy grow – including the 10 percent individual income tax bracket, reductions in the marriage penalty, the expansion of the child tax credit, and reduced rates on regular income, capital gains, and dividends.
 Open markets contribute to America's prosperity – exports now account for a larger percentage of our GDP than at any other time in our history, meaning that trade is supporting economic growth. To help workers directly displaced by trade adjust to changes in our dynamic economy, Congress should also reauthorize and reform the Trade Adjustment Assistance program.