 The more sources of energy we have, the less influence any one of them, such as oil, has over the United States' security and prosperity. Renewable energies are some of the most promising new sources for energy because they are clean and because their supply can be regenerated. The Washington International Renewable Energy Conference brings together government, civil society, and private sector leaders to address benefits and costs of the global deployment of renewable energy technology.
 President Bush is:
 The new authority would allow additional loan guarantees of up to $38.5 billion, of which $18.5 billion in loan guarantees will support construction of new plants and enable nuclear plant owners to reduce their interest costs. $10 billion of loan guarantees will go towards renewable and/or energy efficient systems and manufacturing, and distributed energy generation, transmission, and distribution. This loan guarantee authority also includes: $6 billion for coal-based power generation and industrial gasification activities at retrofitted and new facilities that incorporate carbon capture and sequestration or other beneficial uses of carbon; $2 billion for advanced coal gasification; and $2 billion for advanced nuclear facilities for the "front-end" of the nuclear fuel cycle.
 In 2005, the United States became the world's leading ethanol producer, and last year, the U.S. accounted for nearly half of worldwide ethanol production.
 This can be made from wood chips, switch grass, and other agriculture products. With the President's 2009 Budget, the Department of Energy has dedicated about $1 billion since 2001 to develop technologies that can make cellulosic ethanol cost-competitive. Since the President took office, the projected cost of cellulosic ethanol has dropped by more than 60 percent.
 Today, there are more that 650 biodiesel fueling stations, and hundreds of fleet operators use biodiesel to fuel their trucks. Every year, more Americans are realizing the benefits of biodiesel, which can produce fuel from soybeans and other vegetable oils, including waste products like recycled cooking grease.
 These vehicles use no gasoline at all, and emit clean, pure water.
 Last year, more than 20 percent of new electrical generating capacity added in the U.S. came from wind – up from just three percent a few years ago – and the U.S. installed more wind power capacity than any other country in the world.
 Nuclear power can generate massive amounts of electricity without causing any air pollution or emitting greenhouse gases, and a growing number of people believe it is an environmentally necessary choice.
1. A first-ever WTO agreement on worldwide elimination of tariffs on a specific list of climate friendly technologies recently identified by the World Bank.
2. A higher level of commitment on the part of the developed and the most advanced developing countries to eliminate barriers to trade across a broader range of other environmental technologies and an array of environment-friendly services.