"Over the last five years, I've seen The 
 campaign spread the word to women about how they can protect their heart health. ... Nothing draws attention like a little red dress, so this is 
 symbol. Across the country, people are rallying around that dress. Women are taking heart disease more seriously. So are their doctors. And every year from 2000 to 2005, heart disease deaths among women decreased."
 Among the President and Mrs. Bush's guests were heart disease survivor Candice Stauffer, fashion designers Mark Badgley, James Mischka, and Narciso Rodriguez, and journalist Natalie Morales. Eighty million Americans suffer from heart disease, which is the number one cause of death for American men and women. Even though women are more likely than men to die from this condition, many women are not aware of the risks associated with not taking preventive action.
 The Heart Truth campaign offers a wide variety of resources to help individuals and local communities raise awareness, such as:
 A 2008 survey shows that five years after the NHLBI launched The Heart Truth campaign, about half of U.S. adult women recognize the Red Dress as the national symbol for women and heart disease awareness.
 According to a 2008 survey, about half of American women know that heart disease is the leading killer of women, up from 34 percent in 2000. While this shows a remarkable increase in awareness, there is still work to be done. African American and Hispanic women, who are at higher risk of heart disease than white women, continue to have lower rates of awareness.
 The Heart Truth campaign is empowering American women to fight back against heart disease, which is often preventable. In 2003, one in three deaths among women was due to heart disease, but data for 2005 - the most recent year for which data are available - show the number dropped to one in four deaths. The yearly decrease in deaths from heart disease since 2000 amounts to 36,703 lives saved.
 Candy Stauffer and her daughter Carrie Wright were watching the show, and a few weeks later when Candy woke up feeling nauseated and bothered by pain in the jaw, her daughter Carrie remembered what Mrs. Bush had said. Candy was then rushed to the hospital in time to be treated for a heart attack. Since her close call, Candy exercises every day, has lost weight, and is calling on others to take better care of their hearts.
 A few years ago, Mrs. Bush traveled to St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City, Missouri, to discuss the importance of being able to recognize heart disease symptoms, and Joyce Cullen watched the local coverage on television. Later, Joyce experienced some of the symptoms Mrs. Bush described and went to the hospital to discover she was having a heart attack. Joyce had surgery and is in good health today. She has since joined The Heart Truth campaign to teach women about the symptoms they may experience during a heart attack, and how they can prevent heart disease.
 In July 2007, Nurse Kunkel admitted a woman in her 70s into the hospital who was complaining of a heart attack. The woman told Nurse Kunkel she went to the nearest hospital because she had just read an interview with Mrs. Bush in which Mrs. Bush described the signs and symptoms of heart attacks in women, and she was beginning to feel those signs. Shortly after arriving at the hospital, the patient's heart went into a fatal rhythm that without treatment would have killed her. Since this woman knew the symptoms of heart disease, she got herself into the hospital in time to save her life. Nurse Kunkel wrote a letter to Mrs. Bush thanking her for her role in saving this patient's life and for her continued efforts to educate the public about cardiovascular health for women through her Red Dress Campaign.