 In Texas, the campaign unveiled a new ad, "Children," that asks voters who they want answering the phone at the White House during a crisis. Watch. Watch.
 In February, the campaign recorded its best fundraising month ever - by more than double. Hillary raised approximately $35 million from roughly 300,000 donors. More than 200,000 new donors contributed to the campaign.
In Texas, El Paso County Commissioner and former Sen. Obama supporter Veronica Escobar switched her support to Hillary.
 Hillary hosts an early vote rally with veterans and flag officers in Waco and a "Solutions for America" rally in San Antonio, Texas... President Bill Clinton holds rallies in Findlay, Marion, Mansfield, Wooster, and New Philadelphia, Ohio.
 The campaign began airing "Dos Veces" in Texas, "Fighter" in Ohio, and "Level" in Rhode Island. Watch.
 On "The Ellen DeGeneres Show," "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer said Hillary would be best for our economy. Watch.
 Hillary delivers campaign messages on Letterman.
 Yesterday in Rhode Island, the campaign announced its state Latino leadership council... In Vermont, supporters gathered for 10 "Bring Your Own Phone" parties and asked their friends and neighbors to support Hillary... In Wyoming, the campaign announced its state steering committee.
 In Texas, a former State Representative endorsed Hillary... In Ohio, five Mayors, a County Commissioner, and a County Auditor endorsed Hillary.
 Hillary announced a plan to cut child poverty in half and end child hunger. Read more.
 Today in Texas, 16 Latino members of congress, community activists and local elected officials join Hillary in San Antonio and kick-off the state "Juntos con Hillary, Una Vida Mejor" tour... In Ohio, Gov. Ted Strickland and former Majority Leader Dick Gephardt campaign in Ashtabula, Youngstown, Canton, and Akron.
 "We need Clinton's strengths now," a column by former Vermont Gov. Madeleine Kunin in the Burlington Free Press. Read more.
 "Black backers steadfast for Clinton." Read more.