The Clinton campaign announced today the release of two radio ads featuring former Louisiana Senator John Breaux.
The 60 second spots, entitled "Stand For Us" and "Get it Done" come one day before Louisiana voters head to the polls.
Hillary has made Gulf Coast recovery a priority in her campaign. She has a clear plan and vows to cut through the red tape to deliver necessary federal assistance and improve federal disaster response. Her plan also proposes the development of a Gulf Coast Corps to attract skilled professionals to the region and employ local workers to rebuild infrastructure and restore public services. Her leadership in the Senate brought 107,000 Louisianan children health care under the State Children's Health Insurance Program that she helped develop. Hillary understands all of the concerns of Louisiana voters and will deliver for them in the White House.
To listen to "Stand By Us", 
.
To listen to "Get it Done", 
.
Following are the scripts for the ads:
"Stand By Us"

Radio: 60
Hi, this is Senator John Breaux.
You know, I was in government a long time and I found out something really important.
It's easy to give a great speech but it's a lot harder to get things done.
Hillary Clinton knows how to get things done.
I know her, and I've seen her do it.
I saw Hillary get health care for six million kids, 107,000 right here in Louisiana.
And I saw Hillary push to get cheaper vaccinations for almost every child in America.
I saw Hillary work with our Republican colleagues and win access to health care for every member of the Louisiana National Guard and Reserves, regardless of their deployment status.
So when Hillary Clinton says she'll get health care for every American, I know she'll do it.
And boy do we need it.
This is John Breaux. If you want a president who will finally get something done for people right here in Louisiana, join me on Saturday and support Hillary Clinton.
VO: Paid for by Hillary Clinton for President
 I'm Hillary Clinton, candidate for president, and I approve this message.