With American families falling further into debt than ever before, Hillary Clinton unveiled a comprehensive plan to ensure fair access to credit on reasonable terms and to help Americans get back on their feet. Today, families across America are struggling to cope with spiraling household debt. Households in poverty face a vicious credit cycle, suffering abusive rates and penalties as they struggle with mounting debt. And middle-class Americans dealing with resetting mortgages and rising health care, college, and energy costs are depending more and more on credit cards just to stay afloat:
For three decades now, credit card companies and major banks have been subject to less and less regulation. Most state regulations today do not apply to credit card companies, and federal law sets few restrictions on what they can do. To help reverse these trends and protect American families, Hillary's Fair Credit for Families Agenda will:
We have seen a rise in exploitative credit products such as payday and refund anticipation loans ("RALs"). A refund anticipation loan gives a taxpayer a short-term cash advance, using the person's anticipated federal tax refund as collateral. In 2005, payday lenders earned $4.2 billion in excessive loan fees, and Americans paid $960 million in finance charges associated with refund anticipation loans. [Center for Responsible Lending, 2006; Consumer Federation, 2005]
Many middle-class and low-income families - especially those without access to basic financial services - have fallen victim to a thriving trade that reaps profits by lending Americans their own money at high interest rates. To address this challenge, Hillary will:
 States have enacted a variety of limits on payday lenders. For example, Florida stops borrowers from taking more than one payday loan at a time, and it enforces this law through a central data reporting system that lenders must use; Illinois insists on a waiting period before additional payday loans may be issued. However, some payday stores argue that federal law allows them to avoid complying with these state rules. Hillary will once and for all stop payday lenders from circumventing state consumer protection laws.
 Americans paid an estimated $960 million in fees in 2005 for refund anticipation loans (RALs). These are loans based on your federal tax refund, where the effective interest rate is often in triple-digits, sometimes as high as 700%. Low-income Americans are hardest hit. According to the IRS, in 2005, 83% of RAL users had incomes of less than $35,000. In 2006, over 60% of RAL consumers were recipients of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), even though EITC beneficiaries comprised only 17% of all taxpayers. To curb the proliferation of RAL loans, Hillary will:
 In a 2004 survey on personal financial literacy, high school seniors answered only half the questions correctly; two-thirds of them failed the exam. Nor does financial literacy seem to improve later in life: the average American scored 42% on a personal finance quiz, and less than 10% answered more than three-quarters of the questions correctly.
 In 2002, 56 million Americans - including, by some estimates, a full quarter of low-income families - did not have either a checking or savings account. Families today spend $8 billion a year obtaining basic financial services that many Americans take for granted. Minorities are especially hard hit by payday lenders and cash-checking operators. In California, for example, a full quarter of Latino and African-American households lack a checking account. To promote greater access to basic financial services and help families trapped in a vicious cycle of credit card debt, Hillary will: