 Jericho is a grantee of the Prisoner Re-entry Initiative (PRI), which the President proposed in 2004 as a signature program of the Faith-Based and Community Initiative. The program is run by Episcopal Community Services of Maryland and serves non-violent adult male offenders who have been released from prison within the last six months. The program emphasizes employment readiness training and job placement while providing recovery counseling, case management, and a network of partner service providers to meet the needs of recently released ex-offenders as they transition back to society.
 This Order charged the office with leading a "comprehensive effort to enlist, equip, enable, empower, and expand the work of faith-based and other community organizations." The President has since established Centers for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives at 11 Federal agencies, where they are successfully strengthening partnerships with these grassroots organizations and implementing the FBCI vision within their agency's human service programs.
 Over the past seven years, the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives and the Agency Centers it oversees have worked to strengthen both faith-based and community organizations and to extend their work in partnership with government.
 For example, through initiatives such as the voucher-based Access to Recovery program, the Administration is working to expand individual choice so that Americans in need of substance abuse treatment and recovery support services can receive help from the program that best suits them. In addition, the Compassion Capital Fund, another signature program of the Initiative, is helping small, grassroots organizations that have never received Federal funding build the capacity they need to compete for Federal grants and serve their communities.
 The Initiative has:
 The PRI is a collaborative effort between the Departments of Labor (DOL) and Justice (DOJ) to help reduce recidivism among ex-offenders in urban centers and other areas with the greatest need by connecting them with faith- and community-based organizations in the cities to which they return.
 The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) represents massive-scale implementation of the Initiative's vision. In PEPFAR's 15 focus countries, more than 80 percent of PEPFAR partners are indigenous organizations, and more than 20 percent of all partners are faith-based. By focusing on principles that have changed behavior, this program is succeeding.
 Twelve of these States have changed governors, some across party lines, but not one has ended their efforts.
 For example, California does not currently have an official Initiative, but in 2006, its nonprofits won more than 1,550 competitive Federal grants totaling nearly $1.1 billion dollars to serve their neighbors in need.