 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Florida State Representatives Aaron Bean (R-Fernandina Beach), Stephen Precourt (R-Orlando), and Garrett Richter (R-Naples) endorsed Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States. The three legislators were previously members of Fred Thompson's Florida Legislative Leadership Team.
Announcing their support, Governor Romney said, "Representatives Bean, Precourt and Richter are all experienced public servants and strong voices for conservative change in the Florida House of Representatives. I am proud to have these three legislative leaders join my team and I thank them for their support as we head into Florida's primary this week."
In a joint statement, Representatives Bean, Precourt and Richter said, "Mitt Romney has spent decades in the private sector creating real jobs for real American workers. With the state of the economy on the minds of Floridians and Americans across the country, we don't need more inside-the-beltway pessimism. What we need is a leader with Governor Romney's real-world experience to ensure that the American economy remains the strongest in the world."


 He is the Chairman of the Healthcare Appropriations Committee and additionally serves on the Future of Florida's Families Committee, the Economic Development, Trade and Banking Committee, and the Fiscal Council, among others. Representative Bean and his wife, Abby Bradley, have three children.


 He serves on the Committee on 21st Century Competitiveness, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment & Natural Resources Council, the Committee to Protect Personal Information, and is the Vice Chair of the Committee on Energy. He and his wife, Lisa, have five children.


 Representative Richter is the Founder and former President and CEO of First National Bank of Florida. He was elected to the Florida House of Representatives in 2006 and serves as the Vice Chair of the Committee on Financial Institutions. He also serves on the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on K-12 Education and the Jobs and Entrepreneurship Council. Representative Richter and his wife, Diana, have three children.