The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the launch of a new radio ad entitled "Comisionada Sosa y Alcalde Robaina." The ad is airing on Spanish language radio in Florida and features Hialeah Mayor Julio Robaina and Miami-Dade County Commissioner Rebeca Sosa.
To listen to the ad, click here: 
. The script is below.
 "Les habla su Alcalde Julio Robaina La experiencia no se improvisa. La persona con la experiencia necesaria para ser un gran Presidente es Rudy Giuliani. Giuliani tiene la experiencia para proteger a nuestras familias. Él tiene la experiencia para manejar los momentos difíciles que confronta todo Presidente."
 "Les habla su comisionada Rebecca Sosa.Me preguntan que busco en el próximo Presidente de los Estados Unidos – que tenga liderazgo probado. Esa es la razón por la que apoyo a Rudy Giuliani. Recordemos el dolor de aquel 11 de septiembre cuando esta gran nación enfrento unos de los momentos más difíciles de su historia. En ese momento, Rudy Giuliani creció y demostró sus cualidades de compasión y liderazgo Votemos por el líder probado. Votemos por Rudy Giuliani."
 "Rudy Giuliani – Presidente"
 "Soy Rudy Giuliani y apruebo este mensaje."
 "Pagado por the Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated."
 "This is your Mayor Julio Robaina. You can't improvise (make up) experience. The person with the necessary experience to be a great President is Rudy Giuliani."
 "Giuliani has the experience to protect our families. He has the experience to handle those difficult moments that all Presidents face."
 "This is your commissioner Rebecca Sosa. I'm asked what I'm looking for in the next President of the United States – that they have proven leadership. That is the reason why I support Rudy Giuliani. Let's remember the pain of that September 11th, when this great country faced one of the most difficult times of its history. At that moment, Rudy Giuliani rose to the occasion and showed us his qualities of compassion and leadership. Let's vote for the proven leader. Let's vote for Rudy Giuliani."
 "Rudy Giuliani- President"
 "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
 "Paid for by the Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee Incorporated."