 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390


 As President, Governor Romney will be dedicated to keeping Michigan and America economically strong in the face of extraordinary challenges here at home and abroad. Maintaining our economic strength means Washington must change. In Washington, Governor Romney will once again put government on the side of creating good jobs and building a stronger economy. Governor Romney will not rest until Michigan is back.
 As the rest of the nation has benefited from a strong economy, Michigan has endured a one-state recession. Michigan's unemployment currently stands at 7.4%, but that is forecast to rise to 8.2% next year and 8.7% the year after that. The problems in Michigan have only been exacerbated by poor choices made by leaders in Lansing to raise taxes and not cut spending.
 As Michigan families have endured a one-state recession, Washington has taken little action. In fact, with the domestic automobile industry already facing existing burdens, Washington increased CAFE standards that will make it harder for American automobiles to compete. Our leaders in Washington are aware of Michigan's pain, but have chosen instead to do more harm than good.
 What Michigan is feeling will be felt by the entire nation unless we win the battle here. Michigan is like the canary in the mine shaft. What is hurting Michigan, if left unchecked, will imperil the entire nation's economy. Michigan's economic worries should be America's worries.
 However, this means changing Washington. Michigan and our domestic automakers can no longer afford Washington politicians who are merely "aware" of our economic challenges. Michigan needs leaders who will do something about them.
 If elected President, in his first 100 days, Governor Romney will bring together industry, labor, Congressional and state leaders to develop a plan to rebuild America's automotive industry. This strategy will be one that works for Michigan and the American people.
 From legacy costs, health care costs, increased CAFE standards and embedded taxes, our domestic automotive industry can only thrive if Washington takes off the mandates that put the industry at a disadvantage.
 Fleet mileage needs to rise, but discontinuous CAFE leaps – uncoordinated with the domestic manufacturers, and absent consideration of competitiveness – will kill jobs and imperils an industry. Washington dictated CAFE is not the right answer.
 For example, Senator McCain and Senator Lieberman have a bill pending in Congress that unilaterally imposes new high energy costs on manufacturers, with no safety valve. The Energy Information Agency estimated that this one bill would raise electric rates by as much as 25%, increase gasoline prices by 68 cents a gallon and cost America over 300,000 jobs. Americans want to address climate change but in a global manner. Placing caps and taxes on the U.S. alone as McCain-Lieberman would do would drive manufacturers to China and India.
 Some have said there is more healthcare cost in an automobile today than there is steel cost. Health insurance costs have got to come down. In August, Governor Romney outlined a comprehensive solution to America's health care ills that expands access to affordable, portable, quality, private health insurance.
 America's corporations, like individuals, need lower and simpler taxes. The United States has the second highest corporate tax rate in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. We cannot afford to have a tax rate that is out of alignment with the other major economies of the world.
 Research spins out new ideas for new products for both small and large businesses. Industries thrive in the investment and creation of new technologies.
 Governor Romney believes that we must encourage companies to invest more in research and development to produce the innovations our companies need to win in the global economic competition.
 These self-managed accounts will give workers the opportunity to take control of their own futures by getting the training and education they need to succeed in the new economy.
 Governor Romney will initiate an audit of all existing worker training and educational programs to ensure that workers are being helped most efficiently, while eliminating duplicative spending and minimizing bureaucratic overhead.
 As President, Governor Romney will emphasize math and science education, while promoting innovative approaches such as charter schools and public-private partnerships, to ensure that our workers have the intellectual capital and skills to compete in the 21st century economy. Governor Romney will also treat teachers like the real professionals they are. Better teachers should receive better pay while being evaluation and promoted.
 For America to remain the world's superpower, we must remain the world's economic superpower. That requires us to successfully compete everywhere around the globe. Governor Romney supports free trade but believes that trade must be fair.
 Governor Romney will seek to bring together nations committed to open markets and playing by the rules in the largest ever Free Trade Area, and go beyond traditional trade to promote high standards in areas critical to U.S. competitiveness.
 The Doha Round and free trade agreements can be huge opportunities for America.
 Governor Romney's vision for expanding trade includes stronger enforcement efforts, multilateral efforts to stop currency manipulation, action against intellectual property rights theft, negotiations to open markets for services, and building food, safety and other standards to protect Americans.