 (Hugh Hewitt Radio Show, 12/21/07; 
)


 "Gov. Mike Huckabee on Thursday night lambasted the profit levels of oil companies, saying they 'are stealing from absolutely the poorest people.' He also suggested the Legislature enact a uniform pay scale for school superintendents in the state." (Michael R. Wickline, "Huckabee Lashes Out At Oil Firms Over Profits," 
, 10/28/05)
 "Huckabee said he is different from his rivals because he comes from humble beginnings. 'Nobody owns me and I'm not in the favor of the Wall Street crowd, and that ought to be in your best interest,' he said." (Rossi Lisa, "Huckabee Says Campaign Is Building Momentum," 
, 8/9/07)
 "Does Huckabee really believe that Reaganomics represents a philosophy of greed? ... This is the rhetoric that is being religiously flogged on an hourly basis by Democrat John Edwards over on the class warfare side of the divide." (Jeffrey Lord, "Huckabee Attacking Reaganomics," 
, 12/28/07)
 "But a review of tax legislation passed while he was governor shows a net tax increase of $505 million, a figure adjusted for inflation and economic growth, according to the state Department of Finance and Administration. ... The 90 cuts reduced tax collections by $378 million, according to the Department of Finance and Administration. Meanwhile, the department counts 21 tax increases that raised collections by $883.1 million." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," 
, 10/9/07)
 "The average Arkansan's tax burden grew from $1,969 in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 1997, to $2,902 in the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2005, including local taxes." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," 
, 10/9/07)
 GOV. HUCKABEE: "There is a lot of support for a tax at the wholesale level for tobacco. That's fine with me. I will very happily sign that... Some have suggested the retail level of tobacco. If that ends up being your preference, I will accept that. Others have suggested a surcharge on the income tax. That's acceptable. I'm fine with that. ... Others have suggested perhaps a sales tax. That's fine. Yet others have suggested a hybrid that would collect some money from any one or combination of those various ideas... If that's the plan that the House and Senate agree upon, then you will have nothing but my profound thanks." (Mark Silva, "Conservatives Target A Once Tax-Happy Huckabee," 
's The Swamp Blog, 11/12/07; 
)
- 
 "Three days after the start of the May special session, the Legislature passed a bill that raised taxes on tobacco products and established on a 3 percent income-tax surcharge. Huckabee signed the bill into law hours later. It raised $97 million its first year in effect." (Daniel Nasaw, "Gaps Led To Taxing In Huckabee Years," 
, 10/9/07)
 (Andrew DeMillo, "Despite No-Tax Pledge, Huckabee Pressed By Fiscal Conservatives," 
, 3/14/07)
 "The Club for Growth, which advocates limited government and lower taxes, has repeatedly criticized Huckabee since his formation in January of a presidential exploratory committee. It notes that as governor, Huckabee increased taxes on sales, gasoline, cigarettes and nursing homes." (Andrew DeMillo, "Despite No-Tax Pledge, Huckabee Pressed By Fiscal Conservatives," 
, 3/14/07)