"The Protect America Act expires in just 10 days, yet after nearly six months of delay, Congress has still not taken the necessary action to keep our Nation safe. The terrorist threat we face does not expire on February 1. For the sake of our national security, Congress must act now to send the President a bill that keeps a critical intelligence gap permanently closed and provides meaningful liability protection for companies that may have assisted in efforts to defend America following the 9/11 attacks."
─ 
 Last August, Congress passed the Protect America Act (PAA), which provided our Intelligence Community a critical tool it needs to acquire important information about terrorists who want to harm America. The PAA will expire in just 10 days. Congress must act now to keep our Nation safe by making the critical authority to collect intelligence under the PAA permanent and by providing meaningful liability protection to companies alleged in lawsuits to have assisted in the efforts to defend our Nation following the 9/11 attacks.
 This bill would:
 For example, it appropriately retains a requirement to seek court orders to conduct surveillance of persons in the U.S. 
It also requires court review of the procedures used to protect information about Americans.
 Outdated provisions in Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) often required us to obtain court orders before intercepting the communications of terrorists overseas. This bill would correct that problem.
 This protection would only be extended if the companies were told the activity was authorized by the President and determined to be lawful.
 For example, the Administration opposes particular technical aspects of the so-called "Wyden Amendment," which would impose undue operational burdens on the Intelligence Community's collection of foreign intelligence information on U.S. persons. We look forward to working with Congress to address these concerns.
 The Committee rightly determined that this lack of protection could result in a "possible reduction in intelligence" that is 
 It would not prevent lawsuits against the government and would not provide immunity from criminal prosecution.
 Requiring companies to second-guess the government's determinations would slow or eliminate critical intelligence collection and would place private parties in the impossible position of making legal determinations without access to the classified facts necessary to make such determinations.
 Such litigation also risks the disclosure of highly classified information.