Hartford, CT - Continuing its momentum here in Connecticut, the Hillary Clinton for President Campaign today announced the formation of the Connecticut Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Connecticut, speaking to their friends, family and associates about Hillary's strength and experience, and helping to grow the grassroots network of women across America who are supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
"Hillary has been leading and fighting for the issues that matter most to women throughout her entire life," said Susan Cocco, Co-Chair of the Connecticut for Hillary Steering Committee. "I'm proud to support Hillary, because I know she is the only candidate with the vision and leadership that makes her ready to lead on Day One. I'm looking forward to doing all I can over the next two weeks to help her win the Connecticut Primary."
Earlier today the Clinton campaign today reinforced its commitment to protect a woman's right to make the most fundamental decisions about her life and health and announced a comprehensive agenda for women's reducing unintended pregnancy and enhancing access to reproductive health care. The announcement comes on the 35th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision Roe v. Wade and follows the news of the endorsement of WCLA-Choice Matters, one of the oldest pro-choice advocacy organizations in the nation.
The agenda includes preventing unintended pregnancies by increasing access to honest, accurate sex education, contraception and family planning services, ensuring that private health plans offer the same level of coverage for contraception as they do for other prescription drugs and services, ensuring that women who survive sexual assault have access to emergency contraception upon request. Clinton also calls for providing greater access to reproductive health care services overseas.
For more information about Hillary's Agenda For Reproductive Health Care, 
.
The members of the Connecticut Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
CONNECTICUT WOMEN FOR HILLARY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
CONNECTICUT WOMEN FOR HILLARY