 "Aumentan los impuestos – los seguros. A todos nos afecta."
 "Taxes increase – insurance. We're all affected."
 "In Palm Beach County, [Florida Governor Charlie] Crist visited the home of Michael and Jeanette Waddle west of West Palm Beach to tout the tax cut and court voter support for super-sizing the homestead exemption. The Waddles paid $250,000 for their single-story house on a quiet suburban street in 2005. 
 (Linda Kleindienst and Josh Hafenbrack, "Gov. Crist Signs Historic Bill Calling For $15.6 Billion In Tax Cuts," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 6/22/07)
 (Linda Kleindienst and Josh Hafenbrack, "Gov. Crist Signs Historic Bill Calling For $15.6 Billion In Tax Cuts," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 6/22/07)
 "In expensive markets like South Florida, for example, homeowners who have yet to qualify for a state property-tax cap say they've seen 
. It's a large reason why, according to a new Zogby International poll, half of South Floridians and 37% of all Floridians say they're considering moving out of the state." (Tim Padgett, "Behind Florida's Property Tax Revolt," Time, 6/12/07)
 "Amendment 1 proposes changes to the state constitution, including increasing the homestead exemption to $50,000 from $25,000 and allowing homestead property owners to transfer up to $500,000 of the cap on their property assessment to a new home. It also provides a $25,000 exemption for tangible personal property and limits assessment increases for some non-homesteaded property except for assessments pertaining to school district taxes." (Shelly Sigo, "Crist Pushes Amendment 1," The Bond Buyer, 1/3/08)
 "Crist joined FAR and other business groups that support Amendment 1, including the Florida Chamber of Commerce, Associated Industries of Florida, Florida Power & Light, Florida Retail Federation, the Florida Outdoor Advertising Association, and the Florida Medical Association, in unveiling a campaign called 'Vote on 1' and a Web site at 
." (Shelly Sigo, "Crist Pushes Amendment 1," The Bond Buyer, 1/3/08)
 "All along the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, from Texas to New England, insurers suffering from hurricane jitters are raising rates and cutting back on coverage. But nowhere is the situation more severe than in Florida, particularly here in South Florida and in the Florida Panhandle, where storms in recent years have added billions to the insurers' losses." (Joseph Treaster, "Hurricane Jitters Lift Florida Insurance Rates," International Herald Tribune, 9/1/06)
 "[T]he problems with Florida's home insurance market overshadow the improvements: Consumer premiums remain high. The financial burden for repairing the damage caused by a big storm has shifted to Florida taxpayers, the result of what some call questionable public policy. Also, many private insurers still won't do business in the state because they can't compete with the low rates of state-run Citizens Property Insurance Corp. and in a political environment they consider hostile to the insurance industry." (Russell Ray, "Stormy Conditions Rage On In Home Insurance Market," Tampa Tribune, 12/2/07)
 "Rudy Giuliani tiene un plan. El recorte de impuestos más grande en la historia de este país."
 "Rudy Giuliani has a plan. The largest tax cut in the history of this country."
 "El recorte de impuestos más grande en la historia de este país"
 "The largest tax cut in the history of this country."
 (Americans For Tax Reform, "Rudy Giuliani Tax Cut Plan," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Matt Lewis, "Rudy's New Tax Plan Unveiled," Townhall.com, 
, 1/9/08, Accessed 1/9/08)
 (James Pethokoukis, "Giuliani's Shock-and-Awe Tax Plan," U.S. News & World Report's "Capital Commerce" Blog, 
, 1/10/08, Accessed 1/10/08)
 "Mayor Giuliani plans to simplify the tax code by introducing the Fair and Simple Tax (FAST) form. The FAST form gives American taxpayers the option of filling out their taxes on a single page, while cutting the current six brackets in half and preserving the major deductions that Americans depend upon – mortgage interest, charity, state & local taxes, the child tax credit, the personal exemption and the new health care exclusion." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 107)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 81)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update," Congressional Budget Office, 8/07, p. 20-21.)
 "Y Rudy Giuliani es el único candidato Republicano que apoya un fondo nacional para aliviar el alto costo de los seguros a la propiedad."
 "And Rudy Giuliani is the only Republican candidate that supports a national fund to provide relief with the high cost of property insurance."
 "Apoya un fondo nacional para aliviar el alto costo de los seguros a la propiedad."
 "Supports a national fund to provide relief with the high cost of property insurance."
 "Giuliani supports one of the top priorities of Crist and other Florida leaders from both parties: creation of a national fund to help cover catastrophic loses from national disasters. The idea is to spread the risk and limit the liability of insurance companies so they can provide more affordable rates. 'You should have a federal backstop for once-in-a-century catastrophes, once-in-a-decade catastrophes, these horrible things that happen,' he said. He said beneficiaries and state and local governments need to absorb some risk. Noting New York's potential vulnerability to hurricanes and the West Coast's susceptibility to earthquakes, Giuliani said such a program would be good for other parts of the country as well as Florida." (Anthony Man, "Giuliani Visits Florida," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 12/7/07)
 (Joe Follick and Lloyd Dunkelberger, "Parliamentarianism Clogs Clarity Quest," The [Lakeland, FL] Ledger, 4/8/07)
 (William March, "Giuliani Puts Democrats On Defensive," Tampa Tribune, 4/5/07)
 QUESTION: "Can you share your thoughts on a national catastrophic insurance program?" GIULIANI: "I just talked to your Governor about that. Talked to your Governor about it many times. He's explained it to me in great detail. The Attorney General, when he was a candidate, when I supported him, I think it is a very good idea. I think it's a very good idea not just for Florida, it's a very good idea for the whole country. We all need it. You need it for hurricanes, California needs it for earthquakes, somebody else needs it for tornadoes. New York needs it for ice storms and for hurricanes. During the time I was the mayor, my governor, Governor Pataki, had to deal with two really catastrophic ice storms in northern New York. We sent him some help, he did a great job of doing it, but we need that help. The parts of the country that think it only helps Florida, I think are missing all the other natural catastrophes and disasters and maybe they are not hurricanes, but they are all the other things I mentioned." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks To Florida Legislators, Tallahassee, FL, 4/4/07)
 "Addressing a question about the impact of high property insurance rates on Florida's economy, Romney said he would like to investigate options for expanding the private insurance market before he supports a national catastrophic insurance fund, an idea endorsed by Florida Gov. Charlie Crist. If he were to support a multistate catastrophe fund, Romney said, it should include only states at high risk for natural disasters. 'I do not believe that you're going to hear the nation say we're going have other states subsidize states that are high risk,' he said." (Mike Salinero, "Romney Supports Letting All Cubans Migrate To U.S.," The Tampa Tribune, 11/28/07)
 "Though he appeared not to have given the topic much thought, Thompson also seemed inclined to oppose a national catastrophe insurance plan that could make property insurance more affordable in states prone to natural disasters, a critical issue in Florida." ("Thompson Sets Off Florida Alarms," Tampa Tribune, 9/20/07)
 "Asked about a national catastrophe fund to ease the property insurance crisis in Florida and other states, [Huckabee] was receptive but said he'd have to see the details. Rebuilding people's beach homes doesn't appeal to him, but, 'I come from a state that's prone to tornadoes and floods. I understand how devastating it can be, so I'm very sympathetic.'" ("State Is Gaining Clout, GOP Told," St. Petersburg Times, 5/20/07)
 "During their private meeting, Crist and McCain discussed the possibility of a national catastrophe fund, about which McCain said he wants to learn more. 'I want to read some of the fine print, but I think that what is being done here is the outline and the model of what needs to be accomplished,' he said." (Dara Kam, "McCain: I Meant To Say 'Judeo-Christian' Values," Palm Beach Post, 10/3/07)
 (Gov. Charlie Crist, Op-Ed, "National Catastrophe Fund Needed Now," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 5/14/07)
 (Editorial, "Crist Lobbies Congress," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 2/28/07)
 "Lastly, the Legislature should strongly back creation by Congress of a national catastrophe fund, to protect insurers from enormous losses and boost rate-lowering competition." (Editorial, "D-Day For The Legislature," Florida Today, 3/5/06)
 "Sus logros demuestran su capacidad. Su visión nos da esperanza."
 "His accomplishments demonstrate his capability."
 "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
 (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139; "2001 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area, 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 16)
 (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
 (K.C. Baker and Corky Siemaszko, "N.Y. Notches 4th Year As Safest Major City," Daily News, 5/17/99)
 (Aaron Fried, Op-Ed, "Small Numbers Oppose Time's Person Of The Year," The [Syracuse] Post-Standard, 5/3/02)
 (Editorial, "No Watchdog For NYPD," Daily News, 3/28/00)
 "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
 "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (Independent Budget Office Of The City Of New York, "Welfare And Work," 
, 2/14/05)
 (Steven Lee Myers, "A Deficit Revisited," The New York Times, 7/31/94; City Of New York Office Of The Comptroller, Fiscal Year 2001 Comprehensive Annual Report: Basic Financial Statements Part II-A, p. 14)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3; Comptroller of the City of New York, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the Comptroller for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003, 10/31/03; U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics Website, data.bls.gov, Accessed 5/3/07)
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
 (New York City Gross City Product Data 1990-2005, City Of New York Office Of Comptroller; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2000 Message Of The Mayor, p.3; City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor, p. 3)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Budget Summary, p. 9; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 242)
 (Gov. Haley Barbour, Remarks, Pearl, MS, 9/4/07)
 (James Ahearn, "Politically Correct But Unwarranted," The [Bergen County, NJ] Record, 12/30/01)
 (Stuart Rothenberg, Op-Ed, "Is Rudy Likely To Be A Favorite Or A Flop?" Roll Call, 1/16/07)
 (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/17/99)
 (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 (Stephen Adler et. al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
 (MSNBC's "Headliners & Legends," 11/17/01)
 "[N]otre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey, who drafted the RICO statue, says that as early as 1980 he gave a lecture to the FBI suggesting a RICO case against the mob. But Blakey says, 'If Rudy wants to claim credit, I say, give it to him. Because it wouldn't have happened without him.'" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 "'Over all, he's been an excellent U.S. Attorney,' said Gerald Stern, who as administrator of the State Commission on Judicial Conduct has complained about Mr. Giuliani's public disclosures regarding criminal defendants. 'He's intelligent, innovative, hard-working and has done a fine job.'" (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 "Eighteen men were convicted today of operating an international heroin and cocaine ring that distributed more than $1.6 billion in drugs through pizza parlors in the Northeast and Midwest. The convictions of the men, who include former leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and the New York-based Bonnano crime family, follow the convictions late last year of the members of a ruling Mafia commission. 'It is a tremendous victory in the effort to crush the Mafia,' U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said. 'Five years ago nobody would have thought it possible to convict the head of the Sicilian Mafia and the head of a major part of an American Mafia family.' He added, 'The impact on the Mafia of these cases has been devastating. If this continues, there's not going to be a Mafia.'" (Margot Hornblower, "18 Guilty In 'Pizza Connection' Trial," The Washington Post, 3/3/87)
 "In the so-called 'pizza connection' case in the Southern District, which includes Manhattan, the Bronx and seven upstate counties, 22 defendants are accused of operating a Mafia-connected drug ring that smuggled at least $1.65 billion in heroin from Sicily. A defense attorney in the 'pizza connection' case said the quality of the cooperation marshaled by American and Italian authorities in that and other recent cases he was familiar with was 'fabulous and unprecedented.' 'Italy and the United States have been talking cooperation for a decade,' he said, 'but now they're doing it, and it's going to make a difference. …'" (M. A. Farber, "U.S.-Italian Teamwork Bringing Organized-Crime Chiefs To Trial," The New York Times, 10/18/85)
 "Eight organized-crime leaders were convicted last November as members of a national ruling commission of Mafia families that prosecutors said coordinated activities, resolved disputes and sometimes ordered executions. As a Justice Department official, Mr. Giuliani had helped devise the strategy of prosecuting a Mafia directorate; this case was the major result. The defendants, who for the most part did not deny the existence of a Mafia or a commission, represented the Colombo, Genovese, Lucchese and Bonanno families. They received sentences of 40 to 100 years." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 (History Channel's "Mouthpiece," 6/03)
 "Ending a 17-month racketeering trial, a Federal jury yesterday convicted seven men of being members or associates of a murderous crew of the Gambino crime family that operated out of a Brooklyn apartment. The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan gave prosecutors a sweeping victory in the second of two trials stemming from a 1984 indictment that originally included charges against the man prosecutors said was then chief of the Gambino family, Paul Castellano, who was killed in 1985 … In its verdict, which came in the 13th day of deliberations, the jury found the defendants guilty of all the charges presented in a 21-count indictment. … The trial, which included testimony by 207 witnesses for the Government, was the last of a series of large criminal cases begun by former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani against people prosecutors have called major figures in the Mafia." (William Glaberson, "Seven Guilty In Racket Case At Mob Trial," The New York Times, 6/29/89)
 "Right after coming into office, Giuliani announced a Federal 'sweep' to rid Manhattan's Lower East Side streets of small-time drug dealers. Most Federal prosecutors believe their limited resources for drug enforcement should be concentrated on international cases. They leave the $40 'busts' to local authorities. Not Giuliani. He said his office could do both." (Michael Winerip, "High-Profile Prosecutor," The New York Times, 6/9/85)
 "One thing his predecessors did not do is prosecute street-level drug cases. But Mr. Giuliani volunteered his office in a city police drive to rid the Lower East Side of its conspicuous drug commerce – an initiative that was not especially popular in the office or among defense lawyers. Last year Mr. Giuliani and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, in sunglasses and funny clothes, made a crack buy on 160th Street – to illustrate, they said, how easy it was." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 "Randy Mastro, a former federal prosecutor who became one of Giuliani's top mayoral aides, said one of Giuliani's achievements included using federal forfeiture laws to evict drug dealers from low-cost rental apartments in housing projects. 'When agents showed up, the other residents of those projects literally stood and cheered,' he said." (Larry Neumeister, "Giuliani Was Hard-Charging Prosecutor," The Associated Press, 4/9/07)
 "Mr. Koch said that even criminals knew they were likely to escape severe punishment in state courts. He said this was demonstrated when the United States Attorney in Manhattan, Rudolph W. Giuliani, agreed to bring Federal rather than state charges against drug dealers picked up in sweeps on one day each week. 'When a drug pusher is caught,' Mr. Koch said, 'he asks, is this the Federal day. And if the cop says, yes, this is the Federal day, the drug pushers in many cases try to break away and run because they know they are going to jail. And if it is state day, there is no resistance.' According to city police officials, Federal judges impose heavier sentences than state judges in drug cases." (Josh Barbanel, "Koch Recommends Stiffer Penalties And More Prisons," The New York Times, 2/15/85)
 "A New York City Democratic boss and three co-defendants were convicted today of racketeering and conspiracy for corrupting the city's Parking Violations Bureau through six years of bribery. The 12-member federal jury deliberated four days before returning the verdict against Bronx party leader Stanley Friedman and the others in what was the largest New York corruption trial in decades. The four were accused of turning the [Parking Violations Bureau] into their 'private gold mine' through a pattern of bribery from 1979 to 1985. Friedman, who sat impassively as the verdicts were read, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud. Michael Lazar, former city transportation head, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud; ex-PVB director Lester Shafran was convicted of two counts of mail fraud; and businessman Marvin Kaplan was convicted of one count of mail fraud and perjury for lying before the Securities and Exchange Commission. … The trial began Sept. 22, with U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani … accusing Friedman of sitting on a corrupt 'board of directors' which converted the PVB into 'an enterprise for illegal plunder.'" (Larry McShane, "Bronx Democratic Boss, Others Guilty In Corruption Trial," The Associated Press, 11/25/86)
 Frontline's Mark Obenhaus: "The revelation that officials as powerful as Donald Manes and Stanley Freidman were corrupt has shaken public confidence in New York City government. The scandal has spawned a wrath of other investigations. During 1986 and 1987, the Commissioners of Hospitals, Taxis, Transportation, Cultural Affairs, Business Development, two members of the City Planning Commission, a borough president and a United States Congressman all resigned or were under indictment." (PBS's "Frontline," 6/23/87)
 "Former congressman Mario Biaggi (D-N.Y.), sobbing and still protesting his innocence, was sentenced today to eight years in federal prison for extorting payoffs from Wedtech Corp. in return for his political influence. U.S. District Court Judge Constance Baker Motley said she would have given the 71-year-old Biaggi a 'substantially longer' prison term if it were not for his age and poor health. She also fined him $242,000 and ordered him to start serving his sentence Jan. 9 …" (George Lardner Jr., "Biaggi Gets Eight-Year Sentence," The Washington Post, 11/19/88)
 "[P]rosecutors have described as a wide set of illegal payoffs made by Wedtech executives as the company grew from a small machine shop to a $100-million-a-year military contractor, largely through contracts obtained without competitive bidding. So far, four top former executives of the company are said to have implicated more than a dozen public figures … The former Wedtech officials have pleaded guilty to Federal charges brought by Mr. Giuliani and have agreed to cooperate with investigators in exchange for leniency. They have also agreed to plead guilty to state charges in Manhattan and the Bronx." (Mark A. Uhlig, "Two Accused Of Extorting From Wedtech," The New York Times, 1/30/88)
 (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
 "Associate Attorney General designate Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is directing the investigation, would say only that thus far the evidence indicated Mr. Hinckley acted alone. 'There is no suggestion of a conspiracy thus far,' Mr. Giuliani said. 'The F.B.I. is investigating that possibility along with all others.' Government investigators are wary of repeating the history of other assassination inquiries, notably the Warren Commission investigation into the slaying of President Kennedy, which has been followed by widespread suspicions of conspiracy and complaints of slipshod methods." ("Agents Tracing Hinckley's Path Find A Shift To Violent Emotion," The New York Times, 4/5/81)
 (Office of the Associate Attorney General, "Hinckley Sequence Of Events," U.S. Department of Justice)
 "The administration is supporting legislation which, in the words of Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, would 'substantially narrow' that defense. Currently, a defendant can present a defense to a jury that he was either too ill to determine right from wrong or too ill to conform his conduct to what was right. Giuliani said the administration now supports legislation which would eliminate that second insanity defense. Giuliani said, 'The vast majority of federal insanity pleas are like Hinckley's where it is not a case of telling right from wrong but rather of conforming behavior.'" (Michael Sniffen, "Attorney General Seeks To Plug 'Fatal Flaws' In The Law," The Associated Press, 6/22/82)
 Giuliani: "The lack of such a commitment procedure in the federal system creates the very real potential that the public will not be adequately protected from a dangerously insane defendant who is acquitted at trial." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani, Statement Before The National Commission On The Insanity Defense, Arlington, VA, 10/27/82)
 "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
 Giuliani: "[T]he international network of drug traffickers is far more sophisticated than ever before. Sales of illicit drugs … has attracted organized crime leaders, shrewd businessmen and political leaders. Large criminal organizations can respond to isolated law enforcement efforts simply by changing transportation routes or sources of supply … In short, increasing criminal sophistication requires an equally sophisticated law enforcement organization with a world-wide intelligence, enforcement and diplomatic capability." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And Special Assistant To The Attorney General Hank Habict, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith And Deputy Attorney General Edward Schmults, 5/7/81)
 ("Man In The News; Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
 "The following sequence of steps is recommended: 1. Authorize us to select an initial staff of five Department employees – Criminal Division, FBI, DEA being crucial – to prepare under the supervision of Messrs. Giuliani and Jensen a draft agenda and background material for the Committee…" (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
 ("Phase 1 Recommendations," Attorney General's Task Force On Violent Crime, p.ii)
 (Special Assistant To The Associate Attorney General Fred Friedman, Memo To Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, 7/22/81)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To Counsel To President Reagan Fred Fielding, 9/25/81)
 "Su visión nos da esperanza."
 "His vision gives us hope."
 "Soy Rudy Giuliani y apruebo este mensaje"
 "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
 (Editorial, "Rudy Giuliani Is Out Choice In The GOP," Foster's Daily Democrat, 12/20/07)
 "But as I travel across our land, I've begun to hear a murmur that America somehow has lost the ability to achieve great goals. Some good people have come to believe that our country is on the wrong track. Middle class families feel that the American dream may be slipping away. They're worried about the future. They're worried that the future may not be as bright as the past. They're worried that this may be the time where the next generation of Americans doesn't do as well as the last generation. It doesn't have to be that way. We — we, you and I — can decide America's direction. We can determine America's future. After all, that's what an election is all about. So let's decide for optimism, not pessimism; for hope, not despair; for strength, not weakness; for victory, not defeat." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks In Tampa, FL. 12/15/07)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Rudy Giuliani Unveils Twelve Commitments To The American People," Press Release, 6/11/07)
 "During a speech at the Old Bedford Town Hall in New Hampshire today, Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced Twelve Commitments to the American people, a bold vision aimed at moving America forward through change and reform, overcoming new challenges and increasing accountability in Washington. Rudy's Twelve Commitments are based on the principles of giving people more freedom, more power, and more responsibility over their own lives, while protecting our nation, strengthening our economy, and improving the quality of life." (Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee, "Rudy Giuliani Unveils Twelve Commitments To The American People," Press Release, 6/11/07)