 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, our economy is facing unprecedented challenges both here at home and abroad. Our economy needs pro-growth stimulus, but Governor Romney believes any stimulus package should return money to American taxpayers, not increase already out-of-control government spending. To promote economic growth, Governor Romney is proposing an economic stimulus plan that would lower taxes on individuals, reduce taxes for businesses and help homeowners through the current housing crisis.
 Governor Romney would permanently reduce the lowest income tax bracket, permanently eliminate payroll taxes on seniors and make middle-class savings tax free.
 Governor Romney would institute immediate 100% expensing of equipment for two years and permanently reduce the corporate tax rate.
 Governor Romney would reform and expand Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan portfolio limits to allow larger loans to homeowners.
 If our representatives in Washington can work together and demonstrate the leadership that the American people deserve, Governor Romney is optimistic that we can still turn this economy around. Washington must get to work immediately and pass a bill no later than February 19, a month from today, in order to stimulate our economy.
 Permanently cutting taxes for all taxpayers will put more money in workers' pockets and stimulate consumer confidence and spending.

  
 This tax cut would immediately stimulate the economy as taxpayers with the highest propensity to consume receive their increased 2007 tax refunds.
 It is not fair that seniors that have worked their whole life and earned their full Social Security benefit continue to owe payroll taxes to the federal government.
 Governor Romney's proposal will provide an immediate tax cut to working seniors.
 Governor Romney's plan will allow middle class Americans to save tax free by changing the tax rate on interest, capital gains and dividends to absolutely 0%. By helping more Americans save and invest, we can meet the challenges of an aging population and ensure the financial security of America.
 Any taxpayer with Adjusted Gross Income under $200,000 would pay a tax rate of absolutely 0% on all of the income they earn from their savings, capital gains and dividends.
 In recent years, over half of adult Americans have participated in the stock market either directly or through pension plans and mutual funds. Tax-free savings will encourage more families to build wealth by saving, investing and participating in the stock market, which will help grow the economy.
 This plan would allow both large and small businesses to immediately invest in new equipment and capital improvements, which would immediately stimulate the economy and create new jobs.
 Accelerating and increasing capital investment in equipment and other qualified assets in the U.S. will immediately provide a boost to U.S. manufacturers and vendors.
 Entrepreneurs and small businesses, such as S corps and LLCs, which often face cash flow difficulties, will benefit greatly by the reduced cost of investment in equipment under this plan. Additional investment and expansion by these growing businesses will drive economic growth.
 Governor Romney believes we should immediately act to reduce the corporate rate to 25% for 2008 and 20% in 2009. A permanent U.S. corporate tax rate of 20% will attract capital, stimulate investment, and increase American competitiveness with the rapidly growing economies of the world.
 Governor Romney has spoken throughout the campaign about the need to reduce our corporate income tax rate in order to compete more effectively against other countries with lower rates. The United States currently has the second-highest corporate tax rate in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
 Cutting the corporate tax rate will cause new capital to flow to the U.S. and make our U.S. companies more competitive by providing additional funds for research, development, innovation, and hiring of additional employees.
 Governor Romney proposes expanding NeighborWorks America's Foreclosure Avoidance Initiative to help American homeowners stay in their homes. NeighborWorks America assists homeowners by offering foreclosure counseling and identifying refinancing opportunities for U.S. homeowners.
 Making the Bush Tax Cuts permanent is the first step to ensuring that Americans are able to keep more of their hard-earned money.
 As President, Governor Romney will cut marginal tax rates across the board, allowing all Americans to save more money.
 It is unfair to tax Americans three times: first when they earn their money; second when they invest it and receive income from those investments; and third when they die.
 Governor Romney believes that we must encourage companies to invest more in research and development to produce the innovations our companies need to win in the global economic competition.
 We can strengthen Social Security without resorting to higher Social Security taxes that will impact all Americans. Governor Romney will oppose any proposed increase in Social Security taxes.
 At the very least, Congress must pass a patch to the AMT that will prevent this tax from affecting more and more families in America.