 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest web ad, "Democrats' Favorite Republican." The ad highlights Senator John McCain's (R-AZ) positions that are more in line with The New York Times than conservatives. More often than not, Senator McCain has found himself to be the only Republican who could find himself the running mate of Senators Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and even John Kerry. Script and viewing links are below.


 "Who is the Democrats' favorite Republican?"
 "John McCain"
 "John McCain"
 "John McCain"
 "Conservatives do have deep reasons to mistrust John McCain."
 "Why?"
 "He's got problems with conservatives on McCain-Feingold, McCain-Kennedy, Gang of 14."
 "He lost among Republicans big time in Michigan. He lost among Republicans big time in Wyoming."
 "Judges, immigration, campaign reform, taxes, John McCain has consistently, sort of, challenged the Republican Party on some of those stances."
 "The only Republican who could run with Hillary or Obama."
 "I stood with Ted Kennedy and John McCain."
 "The bill that Senator McCain supported in the Senate. I think it's the right thing to do and so does Hillary."
 "In an online interview, Kerry says Senator John McCain approached him about being his running mate."
 "John Kerry is a very close friend of mine. We've been friends for years. Obviously, I would entertain it."
 "McCain though denies he ever considered leaving the party. But, his chief political strategist, John Weaver, tells the paper that McCain did indeed talk to Democrats about moving across the aisle."
 "No wonder the liberal NY Times endorsed John McCain."
 "Paid for by Romney for President, Inc."
 


 
 (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 1/23/08)
 
 (Fox News' "Hannity & Colmes," 1/21/08)
 MSNBC's JOE SCARBOROUGH: "John McCain lost among Republicans in South Carolina. John McCain lost among Republicans in Nevada. He lost among Republicans big time in Michigan. He lost among Republicans big time in Wyoming." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 1/21/08)
 NBC's CHUCK TODD: "[J]udges, immigration, campaign reform, taxes, John McCain has consistently, sort of, challenged the Republican Party on some of those stances." (MSNBC's "Countdown," 1/24/08)
 (MSNBC, Democratic Presidential Debate, 1/16/08)
 CLINTON: "[T]he bill that Senator McCain supported in the Senate. I think it's the right thing to do and so does Hillary." (Bill Clinton, Speech, Bow, NH, 1/5/08)
 CNN's SUZANNE MALVEAUX: "In an online interview, Kerry says Senator John McCain approached him about being his running mate..." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 4/3/07)
 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN: "John Kerry is a very close friend of mine. We've been friends for years. Obviously, I would entertain it." (ABC's "Good Morning America," 3/10/04)
 FOX NEWS' BRIT HUME: "McCain though denies he ever considered leaving the party. But, his chief political strategist, John Weaver, tells the paper that McCain did indeed talk to Democrats about moving across the aisle." (Fox News' "The Special Report," 3/29/07)
 "Still, there is a choice to be made, and it is an easy one. Senator John McCain of Arizona is the only Republican who promises to end the George Bush style of governing from and on behalf of a small, angry fringe. With a record of working across the aisle to develop sound bipartisan legislation, he would offer a choice to a broader range of Americans than the rest of the Republican field." (Editorial, "Primary Choices: John McCain," 
, 1/25/08)
 