 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the support of nine additional Colorado Republican leaders. They join such Colorado Republican leaders as U.S. Senator Wayne Allard, former Governor Bill Owens and Attorney General John Suthers in supporting Governor Romney for President.
In making the announcement, Governor Romney said, "I am proud to have the support of so many strong Republican leaders in Colorado. Coloradans know that Washington is broken and we won't fix it by sending the same people back – just to have them sit in different chairs. I want to go to Washington to lower taxes, end illegal immigration, strengthen our military, and restore trust in our elected leaders. With the help of these and other Colorado leaders, I hope to earn the support of as many voters as possible leading up to the February 5th caucuses."
 He served in the banking and finance industry for more than 30 years, most of that time as President & CEO of the Bank of Boulder. Regent Bosley has five children and nine grandchildren.
 He has experience prosecuting violent criminals, fraud, and other high-profile cases during his tenure with the U.S. Attorney's office in Denver. District Attorney Buck was hired by then-Congressman Dick Cheney to work on the Iran-Contra Investigation and then worked as a prosecutor with the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington. He joined the Colorado U.S. Attorney's Office in 1990. He and his wife, Perry, have two children.
 As Mayor, he serves on the Denver Regional Council of Governments and on the Denver/Baghdad Partnership for Peace. He also teaches and directs theater at the Parker campus of Lutheran High School. Mayor Casiano and his wife, Susan, have been married for 16 years and they have one daughter, Jennifer.
 Mayor Clark has worked in his family's commercial construction business since 1970. He and his wife, Paula, have six children.
 As Commissioner, he oversees the Information Technology and Public Works and Development departments. Commissioner Dyer was the Republican Senator from Senate District 26 for six years. He served on the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senate Health, Environment, Welfare and Institutions, and the Senate Appropriations Committees. Commissioner Dyer has three daughters.
 Previous to that, he served as a Thornton City Councilmember, elected first in 2001. He has also been Chairman of the Agency for a Clean Thornton board and was President of the Woodbridge Station Homeowner's Association. Mayor Hansen is the Vice President of Marketing for ID Watchdog, a Denver-based identity theft protection company. He and his wife, Holly, have been married since 1997 and have a son, Quincy, age 5, and a daughter, Grace, age 3.
 Regent Hybl earned his B.A. and Juris Doctor degrees from the University of Colorado at Boulder, and is a former Air Force Captain and Judge Advocate. He currently serves as Vice President and General Counsel for the El Pomar Foundation and General Counsel for The Broadmoor Hotel in Colorado Springs. He is also General Counsel to The Garden City Company in Garden City, Kansas, and legal adviser to the National Homeland Defense Foundation in Colorado Springs.
 He has a distinguished 44-year record of public service contributions to the City of Loveland and the State of Colorado. Skowron retired from Hewlett-Packard and Agilent in 1999 concluding a 37-year technical engineering career as HP's Global Events Manager. He is a military veteran and served during the Korean War. Skowron is married to his wife, Beverly.
 During his time on the Board of County Commissioners, he has worked to increase citizen involvement through open meetings throughout the county and through expanding the resources available on the County's web pages. In addition to his service on the Board, Commissioner Williams owns his own law practice focusing on labor and employment law matters. He also teaches employment law seminars locally and throughout the nation. He and his wife Holly have three children.