 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced new additions to the Romney for President Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Courts. This group, chaired by Professor Douglas W. Kmiec, former constitutional legal counsel to President Ronald Reagan, has been advising Governor Romney on the important legal issues confronting the country today.
Joining Romney for President after having served as National Co-Chair of Lawyers for Fred Thompson, Victoria Toensing said, "Appointing strong judges is one of our President's most important responsibilities. The next President will make a number of appointments, and I am confident Governor Romney will nominate judges in the mold of President Bush's nominees, Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito. I am proud to work with Governor Romney and this outstanding group of legal minds."
Also joining the Advisory committee from Lawyers for Fred Thompson are Lizette D. Benedi, Rachel L. Brand, Reginald Brown, Charles J. Cooper, Joseph E. diGenova, Michael R. Dimino, Viet D. Dinh, Noel J. Francisco and Eileen J. O'Connor.
Eugene Scalia, who served in the administrations of Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, has also joined the committee. "Governor Romney has the ability, experience, and values to serve as an exceptional President," he said. "He appreciates the role of the courts and rule of law in our society."
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "It is an honor to have the counsel of so many distinguished men and women. Together, they represent years of experience in the legal field and their help to this campaign will be invaluable."
Governor Romney also announced that Victoria Toensing and Joseph diGenova will serve on the Steering Committee of Lawyers for Romney in addition to their roles on the Advisory Committee.
 Counsel, Bancroft Associates; Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Shoney's Restaurant Company; Former Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, CBRL Group, Inc.
 Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Policy, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, Supreme Court of the United States; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Partner, WilmerHale; Former Special Assistant to the President and Associate White House Counsel to President George W. Bush; Former Deputy General Counsel to Florida Governor Jeb Bush; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Partner, Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP; Former Associate Deputy Attorney General, Office of the Deputy Attorney General, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Justice Antonin Scalia, Supreme Court of the United States; Former Assistant U.S. Attorney, Central District of California; Former Attorney Advisor, Office of Legal Counsel, United States Department of Justice; Lawyers for Fred California Co-Chair.
 Partner, Cooper & Kirk, PLLC; Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, United States Department of Justice, for President Ronald Reagan; Former Law Clerk, then-Justice William H. Rehnquist, Supreme Court of the United States; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Schott-van den Eynden Professor, Case Western Law School; Director, National Association of Scholars; President, Ohio Association of Scholars; Former Law Clerk, Judge Paul R. Hays, United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
 Partner, diGenova & Toensing; Former Chief Counsel and Staff Director, Senate Rules Committee; Former Counsel, Senate Judiciary, Governmental Affairs and Select Intelligence Committees; Former United States Attorney, District of Columbia; Lawyers for Fred Maryland Chair.
 Associate Professor of Law, Widener Law School; Former Chief Clerk, Judge Albert M. Rosenblatt, New York State Court of Appeals; Former Law Clerk, Judge Laurence H. Silberman, United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit; Former Law Clerk, Judge Paul L. Friedman, United States District Court for the District of Columbia; Lawyers for Fred Pennsylvania Co-Chair and Legal Professors Committee.
 Principal, Bancroft Associates; Professor of Law and Co-Director of Asian Law & Policy Studies, Georgetown University Law Center; Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Policy, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Supreme Court of the United States; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Partner, Jones Day; Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Justice Antonin Scalia, Supreme Court of the United States; Lawyers for Fred Steering Committee.
 Professor, Notre Dame Law School; Former Undersecretary for Enforcement, United States Department of Treasury, for President George W. Bush; Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of Justice Programs, United States Department of Justice, for President George H.W. Bush.
 Partner, Sidley Austin LLP; Former Senior Associate White House Counsel to President George W. Bush; Former General Counsel and Legal Adviser, National Security Council; Former Law Clerk to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Supreme Court of the United States, and to Judge Kenneth W. Starr, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
 William H. Rehnquist Professor of Law, Pepperdine University; Former Commissioner, National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.
 Partner, Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP; Former Assistant Attorney General, Tax Division, United States Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Partner, Baker Botts; Former Chief Justice, Texas Supreme Court; Former President, Conference of Chief Justices.
 Partner, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher; Former Solicitor of Labor, United States Department of Labor; Former Special Assistant, United States Attorney General William P. Barr; Former Aide, United States Education Secretary William J. Bennett.
 Partner, diGenova & Toensing; Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, United States Department of Justice, for President Ronald Reagan; Former Chief Counsel, United States Senator Barry Goldwater; National Co-Chair of Lawyers for Fred National Steering Committee.
 Caruso Family Chair & Professor of Constitutional Law, Pepperdine University; Former Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice.
 Partner, Sidley Austin LLP; Former Associate White House Counsel to President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, Supreme Court of the United States and Judge Laurence H. Silberman, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit; Chairman, The Federalist Society, Executive Committee of the Criminal Law and Procedure Practice Group.
 General Counsel, Barbour Griffith & Rogers and Of Counsel, McGahn & Associates; Former Counsel to the Speaker of the House; Former General Counsel to the House Majority Leader.
 Assistant Professor, George Mason School of Law; Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush.
 Partner, Bopp, Coleson & Bostrom; General Counsel for the James Madison Center for Free Speech; Special Adviser on Life Issues to Governor Mitt Romney.
 Principal, Mehlman Vogel Castagnetti; Former Special Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs and Acting Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush.
 Greenfield Professor of Securities Law, Harvard Law School; Former Law Clerk to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, Supreme Court of the United States and Judge Laurence Silberman, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
 Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Aon Corporation; Former Deputy Secretary of Labor for President George W. Bush; Deputy Assistant to President George H. W. Bush; Former Law Clerk to Justice Antonin G. Scalia, Supreme Court of the United States.
 Former General Counsel, Corporate and International Law, Tyco International; Former Deputy White House Counsel to President George W. Bush; Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George H.W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, Supreme Court of the United States.
 Principal, Bingham Consulting Group; Former Executive Director, Conference of Western Attorneys General; Former Deputy Attorney General, California Attorney General's Office.
 Associate, Baker Botts; Former Special Assistant to President George W. Bush and Counselor to U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft; Former Law Clerk, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, Supreme Court of the United States.
 Erskine Wood Sr. Professor of Law (and former Dean), Lewis & Clark Law School; Former Chairman, The Federalist Society, Executive Committee of the Environment and Property Rights Practice Group.
 Partner, Sidley Austin LLP; Former Law Clerk, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, Supreme Court of the United States, and then-Judge Samuel Alito, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
 Partner and Head of the Appellate Litigation Practice Group, Kirkland & Ellis LLP; Former Law Clerk, Justices Antonin G. Scalia and Clarence Thomas, Supreme Court of the United States.
 General Counsel, Ford Motor Company; Former Deputy White House Counsel to President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, Supreme Court of the United States.
 Chief Counsel, Judicial Confirmation Network; Former Law Clerk, Justice Clarence Thomas, Supreme Court of the United States.
 Tyler Haynes Professor of Leadership Studies, Political Science, and Law in the Jepson School of Leadership Studies, University of Richmond; Former Chief Speech Writer to Former Attorney General Edwin Meese III.
 Vice President, Legal, Raytheon Corporation; Former Chief of Staff and Chief Legal Counsel to Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.
 Of Counsel, Cooper & Kirk; Former Counsel to U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft; Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, Supreme Court of the United States, and former Judge J. Michael Luttig, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
 Raoul Berger Professor of Legal History, Northwestern University School of Law.
 Principal, Blank Rome Government Relations LLC; Former Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Policy, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush.
 Partner and Chair of the Nationwide Appellate Litigation Group, Winston & Strawn LLP; Former Associate White House Counsel to President George H. W. Bush; Former Law Clerk, Chief Justice Warren Burger and Justice Antonin G. Scalia, Supreme Court of the United States, and to former Judge Kenneth W. Starr, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit; Chairman, Constitutional Sources Project.
 Constitutional Law and Supreme Court Advocate.
 Professor of Law, Capital University Law; Of Counsel, Vorys, Sater, Seymour & Pease; Former Chairman, Federal Election Commission.
 Director of the B. Kenneth Simon Center for American Studies, The Heritage Foundation.
 Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Raytheon Company; Former Deputy White House Counsel to President Ronald Reagan; Former Associate Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice, for President George W. Bush; Former United States Attorney for the District Of Columbia for Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush.
 Partner, Steptoe & Johnson LLP; Former Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, U.S. Department of Justice, for President Ronald Reagan; Former Law Clerk, Justice Harry Blackmun, Supreme Court of the United States, and then-Judge Anthony M. Kennedy, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.