 Immediately after the debate, George Stephanopoulos said, "The exception was John Edwards. I think he showed passion and vitality and energy tonight. He was on-message. He had a strategy tonight. I think this was one of his best debates." [ABC News, 1/5/07]
 "Edwards, btw, had a very good night; he got to look a bit more positive and a little less angry by being the guy who defended Obama." [
 "10:30 pm: This happens at just about every debate: John Edwards comes back to his message again and again, in an effective way. If a debate could vault him back into the game, he may be having that very debate." [
 "An operative for one of the campaigns is watching the live dial tests on WMUR's web site. According to this operative, during Edwards' defense of Obama and hit on Clinton over this "change" issue, the Dems and indies both thought highly of Edwards' line. As for Clinton's response, the Dems in the group stuck with her but the indies were turned off completely." [
 "10:13 Edwards is really unparalleled when it comes to connecting policies with people. I certainly find it very effective." [
 10:02 PM | "Edwards has just referred to his orientation as personal, not academic (read: Obama) or political (read: Hill). And his personal narration is powerful. Slowly, Obama moves to talking about his mother when she was suffering from cancer, but it's almost as if Edwards forced the story out of him. Edwards is the master here." [
 "The press center is eating-up John Edwards attack on the status quo." [
 | Edwards Helped Bury Clinton as a Non-Agent of Change. "Wow. Get your kids out and put them in front of the TV: The Clinton Era officially ended at 9:34 p.m. EST when Edwards paired with Obama to bury Hillary as a non-agent of change. Wow, again." [
 "Clinton got her dig in on Obama (and it was a very fair hit) but the double-team defense from Obama, Edwards (and even Richardson) was potentially devastating for Clinton; it did her no favors." [
 "John Edwards pivoted a bit to the broader issue of non-proliferation policy where he gave a fantastic answer about the need to combine short-term efforts with a long-term commitment to 'rid the world of nuclear weapons' as part of a broad push to revitalize the non-proliferation framework." [
 "UPDATE: Given a second, clearer shot at the nuclear proliferation issue Edwards and Obama both offered great responses. Clinton's decision to put bureaucratic reorganization of the non-proliferation apparatus -- rather than substantive shifts in policy -- struck me as a bit odd, but perhaps in line with her broader argument about experience. She knows the nitty-gritty details of executive branch organization." [
 [