 "When corruption ruled, he challenged it."
 "U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani, who successfully prosecuted stock traders, corrupt politicians and the Mafia, announced his resignation Tuesday … Giuliani – who served as associate attorney general in the Justice Department before becoming U.S. attorney in 1983 …" (Vera Haller, "Famous Prosecutor Steps Down, Leaves Political Door Open," The Associated Press, 1/11/89)
 (Stephen Adler et. al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
 (MSNBC's "Headliners & Legends," 11/17/01)
 "[N]otre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey, who drafted the RICO statue, says that as early as 1980 he gave a lecture to the FBI suggesting a RICO case against the mob. But Blakey says, 'If Rudy wants to claim credit, I say, give it to him. Because it wouldn't have happened without him.'" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 "Eighteen men were convicted today of operating an international heroin and cocaine ring that distributed more than $1.6 billion in drugs through pizza parlors in the Northeast and Midwest. The convictions of the men, who include former leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and the New York-based Bonnano crime family, follow the convictions late last year of the members of a ruling Mafia commission. 'It is a tremendous victory in the effort to crush the Mafia,' U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said. 'Five years ago nobody would have thought it possible to convict the head of the Sicilian Mafia and the head of a major part of an American Mafia family.' He added, 'The impact on the Mafia of these cases has been devastating. If this continues, there's not going to be a Mafia.'" (Margot Hornblower, "18 Guilty In 'Pizza Connection' Trial," The Washington Post, 3/3/87)
 "Prosecutors and law enforcement agencies are basking in the victory of guilty verdicts for three Mafia godfathers and five associates and stiff sentences for eight other mobsters and associates in the government's steamroller assault on La Cosa Nostra. … The heads of three of New York's five Mafia families were convicted Wednesday. They are: Anthony 'Fat Tony' Salerno, 75, head of the Genovese clan, who authorities have called the nation's most powerful gangster. He faces 306 years in jail. Carmine 'Junior' Persico, 53, the Colombo family leader, who was sentenced Monday to 39 years in prison on racketeering, extortion and bribery charges and who now faces another 306 years in jail. Anthony 'Tony Ducks' Corallo, 73, the Lucchese family leader, who faces 326 years." (William M. Reilly, "The Mafia Convictions: 'Organized Crime Never Going To Be The Same Again'," United Press International, 11/23/86)
 "Eight organized-crime leaders were convicted last November as members of a national ruling commission of Mafia families that prosecutors said coordinated activities, resolved disputes and sometimes ordered executions. As a Justice Department official, Mr. Giuliani had helped devise the strategy of prosecuting a Mafia directorate; this case was the major result. The defendants, who for the most part did not deny the existence of a Mafia or a commission, represented the Colombo, Genovese, Lucchese and Bonanno families. They received sentences of 40 to 100 years." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 (History Channel's "Mouthpiece," 6/03)
 "Ending a 17-month racketeering trial, a Federal jury yesterday convicted seven men of being members or associates of a murderous crew of the Gambino crime family that operated out of a Brooklyn apartment. The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan gave prosecutors a sweeping victory in the second of two trials stemming from a 1984 indictment that originally included charges against the man prosecutors said was then chief of the Gambino family, Paul Castellano, who was killed in 1985 … In its verdict, which came in the 13th day of deliberations, the jury found the defendants guilty of all the charges presented in a 21-count indictment. … The trial, which included testimony by 207 witnesses for the Government, was the last of a series of large criminal cases begun by former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani against people prosecutors have called major figures in the Mafia." (William Glaberson, "Seven Guilty In Racket Case At Mob Trial," The New York Times, 6/29/89)
 "A New York City Democratic boss and three co-defendants were convicted today of racketeering and conspiracy for corrupting the city's Parking Violations Bureau through six years of bribery. The 12-member federal jury deliberated four days before returning the verdict against Bronx party leader Stanley Friedman and the others in what was the largest New York corruption trial in decades. The four were accused of turning the [Parking Violations Bureau] into their 'private gold mine' through a pattern of bribery from 1979 to 1985. Friedman, who sat impassively as the verdicts were read, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud. Michael Lazar, former city transportation head, was also convicted of two counts of mail fraud; ex-PVB director Lester Shafran was convicted of two counts of mail fraud; and businessman Marvin Kaplan was convicted of one count of mail fraud and perjury for lying before the Securities and Exchange Commission. … The trial began Sept. 22, with U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani … accusing Friedman of sitting on a corrupt 'board of directors' which converted the PVB into 'an enterprise for illegal plunder.'" (Larry McShane, "Bronx Democratic Boss, Others Guilty In Corruption Trial," The Associated Press, 11/25/86)
 Frontline's Mark Obenhaus: "The revelation that officials as powerful as Donald Manes and Stanley Freidman were corrupt has shaken public confidence in New York City government. The scandal has spawned a wrath of other investigations. During 1986 and 1987, the Commissioners of Hospitals, Taxis, Transportation, Cultural Affairs, Business Development, two members of the City Planning Commission, a borough president and a United States Congressman all resigned or were under indictment." (PBS's "Frontline," 6/23/87)
 "Former congressman Mario Biaggi (D-N.Y.), sobbing and still protesting his innocence, was sentenced today to eight years in federal prison for extorting payoffs from Wedtech Corp. in return for his political influence. U.S. District Court Judge Constance Baker Motley said she would have given the 71-year-old Biaggi a 'substantially longer' prison term if it were not for his age and poor health. She also fined him $242,000 and ordered him to start serving his sentence Jan. 9 …" (George Lardner Jr., "Biaggi Gets Eight-Year Sentence," The Washington Post, 11/19/88)
 "[P]rosecutors have described as a wide set of illegal payoffs made by Wedtech executives as the company grew from a small machine shop to a $100-million-a-year military contractor, largely through contracts obtained without competitive bidding. So far, four top former executives of the company are said to have implicated more than a dozen public figures … The former Wedtech officials have pleaded guilty to Federal charges brought by Mr. Giuliani and have agreed to cooperate with investigators in exchange for leniency. They have also agreed to plead guilty to state charges in Manhattan and the Bronx." (Mark A. Uhlig, "Two Accused Of Extorting From Wedtech," The New York Times, 1/30/88)
 "When welfare failed, he changed it."
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/27/98)
 "At least a few New Yorkers have long despaired of making non-New Yorkers grasp the gargantuan perversity of the city's welfare system. Help has arrived. 'Hands to Work,' by Columbia journalism Prof. LynNell Hancock, purports to be an expose of welfare reform under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. It is far more profitably read as a breathtaking tour of the mindset — supplied by the author and by those she writes about — that for decades made New York the welfare capital of the world." (Heather MacDonald, Op-Ed, "When Bad Habits Met A Mayor Who Wouldn't Put Up With Them," The Wall Street Journal, 1/23/02)
 "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
 "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (Independent Budget Office Of The City Of New York, "Welfare And Work," 
, 2/14/05)
 "When crime thrived, he fought it."
 (Josh Barbanel, "Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani," The New York Times, 10/11/89)
 "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
 Giuliani: "[T]he international network of drug traffickers is far more sophisticated than ever before. Sales of illicit drugs … has attracted organized crime leaders, shrewd businessmen and political leaders. Large criminal organizations can respond to isolated law enforcement efforts simply by changing transportation routes or sources of supply … In short, increasing criminal sophistication requires an equally sophisticated law enforcement organization with a world-wide intelligence, enforcement and diplomatic capability." (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And Special Assistant To The Attorney General Hank Habict, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith And Deputy Attorney General Edward Schmults, 5/7/81)
 ("Man In The News; Nominee For U.S. Attorney," The New York Times, 4/13/83)
 "The federal government brings 35,000 criminal cases a year, the majority for property rather than violent crimes. In 1979, the last full year for which the FBI has figures, there were 1,178,540 violent crimes reported to police in the United States. The overwhelming majority of these violent crimes of murder, rape, robbery and aggravated assault did not violate federal law. In addition, the federal government has reliable evidence that for each violent crime reported to the police in the United States, two others go unreported." (Michael J. Sniffen, "Top Justice Official Says Rehabilitation Key To Reducing Violent Crime," The Associated Press, 8/19/81)
 "The following sequence of steps is recommended: 1. Authorize us to select an initial staff of five Department employees – Criminal Division, FBI, DEA being crucial – to prepare under the supervision of Messrs. Giuliani and Jensen a draft agenda and background material for the Committee…" (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudy Giuliani, Memo To Counsel To President Reagan Fred Fielding, 9/25/81)
 "U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani, who successfully prosecuted stock traders, corrupt politicians and the Mafia, announced his resignation Tuesday … Giuliani – who served as associate attorney general in the Justice Department before becoming U.S. attorney in 1983 …" (Vera Haller, "Famous Prosecutor Steps Down, Leaves Political Door Open," The Associated Press, 1/11/89)
 (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 (Stephen Adler et. al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
 (MSNBC's "Headliners & Legends," 11/17/01)
 "[N]otre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey, who drafted the RICO statue, says that as early as 1980 he gave a lecture to the FBI suggesting a RICO case against the mob. But Blakey says, 'If Rudy wants to claim credit, I say, give it to him. Because it wouldn't have happened without him.'" (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 "Eighteen men were convicted today of operating an international heroin and cocaine ring that distributed more than $1.6 billion in drugs through pizza parlors in the Northeast and Midwest. The convictions of the men, who include former leaders of the Sicilian Mafia and the New York-based Bonnano crime family, follow the convictions late last year of the members of a ruling Mafia commission. 'It is a tremendous victory in the effort to crush the Mafia,' U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said. 'Five years ago nobody would have thought it possible to convict the head of the Sicilian Mafia and the head of a major part of an American Mafia family.' He added, 'The impact on the Mafia of these cases has been devastating. If this continues, there's not going to be a Mafia.'" (Margot Hornblower, "18 Guilty In 'Pizza Connection' Trial," The Washington Post, 3/3/87)
 "Eight organized-crime leaders were convicted last November as members of a national ruling commission of Mafia families that prosecutors said coordinated activities, resolved disputes and sometimes ordered executions. As a Justice Department official, Mr. Giuliani had helped devise the strategy of prosecuting a Mafia directorate; this case was the major result. The defendants, who for the most part did not deny the existence of a Mafia or a commission, represented the Colombo, Genovese, Lucchese and Bonanno families. They received sentences of 40 to 100 years." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 (History Channel's "Mouthpiece," 6/03)
 "Ending a 17-month racketeering trial, a Federal jury yesterday convicted seven men of being members or associates of a murderous crew of the Gambino crime family that operated out of a Brooklyn apartment. The verdict in Federal District Court in Manhattan gave prosecutors a sweeping victory in the second of two trials stemming from a 1984 indictment that originally included charges against the man prosecutors said was then chief of the Gambino family, Paul Castellano, who was killed in 1985 … In its verdict, which came in the 13th day of deliberations, the jury found the defendants guilty of all the charges presented in a 21-count indictment. … The trial, which included testimony by 207 witnesses for the Government, was the last of a series of large criminal cases begun by former United States Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani against people prosecutors have called major figures in the Mafia." (William Glaberson, "Seven Guilty In Racket Case At Mob Trial," The New York Times, 6/29/89)
 "Right after coming into office, Giuliani announced a Federal 'sweep' to rid Manhattan's Lower East Side streets of small-time drug dealers. Most Federal prosecutors believe their limited resources for drug enforcement should be concentrated on international cases. They leave the $40 'busts' to local authorities. Not Giuliani. He said his office could do both." (Michael Winerip, "High-Profile Prosecutor," The New York Times, 6/9/85)
 "One thing his predecessors did not do is prosecute street-level drug cases. But Mr. Giuliani volunteered his office in a city police drive to rid the Lower East Side of its conspicuous drug commerce – an initiative that was not especially popular in the office or among defense lawyers. Last year Mr. Giuliani and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, in sunglasses and funny clothes, made a crack buy on 160th Street – to illustrate, they said, how easy it was." (Laura Mansnerus, "Giuliani: The Public Record Of A Highly Public Prosecutor," The New York Times, 11/8/87)
 "Randy Mastro, a former federal prosecutor who became one of Giuliani's top mayoral aides, said one of Giuliani's achievements included using federal forfeiture laws to evict drug dealers from low-cost rental apartments in housing projects. 'When agents showed up, the other residents of those projects literally stood and cheered,' he said." (Larry Neumeister, "Giuliani Was Hard-Charging Prosecutor," The Associated Press, 4/9/07)
 "Mr. Koch said that even criminals knew they were likely to escape severe punishment in state courts. He said this was demonstrated when the United States Attorney in Manhattan, Rudolph W. Giuliani, agreed to bring Federal rather than state charges against drug dealers picked up in sweeps on one day each week. 'When a drug pusher is caught,' Mr. Koch said, 'he asks, is this the Federal day. And if the cop says, yes, this is the Federal day, the drug pushers in many cases try to break away and run because they know they are going to jail. And if it is state day, there is no resistance.' According to city police officials, Federal judges impose heavier sentences than state judges in drug cases." (Josh Barbanel, "Koch Recommends Stiffer Penalties And More Prisons," The New York Times, 2/15/85)
 ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139)
 (Michelangelo Rucci, "Tales Of A Big, Rotten Apple," The Advertiser, 4/23/90)
 (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/27/98)
 (Devlin Barrett, "Apple Again Safest Big City In U.S.," New York Post, 5/17/99)
 (Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Op-Ed, "Rudy Runs The Rapids," U.S. News & World Report, 4/9/07)
 (Ellis Henican, "City Takes A Beating Over Attack," Newsday, 4/26/89)
 (Nicholas Wapshott, "Big Apple Eats Into Crime," The Australian, 1/2/03)
 (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139; "2001 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area, 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 16)
 (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
 "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
 (K.C. Baker and Corky Siemaszko, "N.Y. Notches 4th Year As Safest Major City," Daily News, 5/17/99)
 (Aaron Fried, Op-Ed, "Small Numbers Oppose Time's Person Of The Year," The [Syracuse] Post-Standard, 5/3/02)
 (Editorial, "No Watchdog For NYPD," Daily News, 3/28/00)
 "When government broke, he fixed it."
 (Editorial, "Bloomberg's Blooper," The New York Sun, 3/11/04)
 (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
 (Bruce Frankel and Keith Greenberg, "Giuliani Edges Dinkins In Bitter NYC Contest," USA Today, 11/3/93)
 (Russell Shorto, Op-Ed, "All Political Ideas Are Local," The New York Times, 10/2/05)
 (Rachelle Cohen, "Giuliani Gets The Vision Thing," Boston Herald, 12/10/93)
 George Will: "[T]he wisdom of New York was to be Mayor of New York … That it was impossible to govern the city. … When I say that being mayor of New York is demanding, I mean this. It has more people than do 39 other states. It is more difficult to govern than all 50 of the states. This for a reason — New York City has been liberalism's laboratory in the 20th century, which means it is a seriously troubled place, or was. It produced a culture of complaint, which led to the politics of victimhood, which led to government by grievance groups, and the learned dependency of an over-developed welfare state." (George Will, Remarks At CPAC, 3/2/07)
 (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
 (Editorial, "Mayor Giuliani Bows Out," The New York Times, 12/30/01)
 (Editorial, "Mayor Giuliani Bows Out," The New York Times, 12/30/01)
 (Gov. Haley Barbour, Remarks, Pearl, MS, 9/4/07)
 (James Ahearn, "Politically Correct But Unwarranted," The [Bergen County, NJ] Record, 12/30/01)
 (Stuart Rothenberg, Op-Ed, "Is Rudy Likely To Be A Favorite Or A Flop?" Roll Call, 1/16/07)
 (CNN's "Crossfire," 2/17/99)
 "And when the world wavered. And history hesitated. He never did. Rudy Giuliani. Leadership. When it matters most."
 "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approve this message."
 (Editorial, "Giuliani Won Many Hearts," St. Petersburg Times, 12/29/01)
 (Eric Pooley, "Mayor Of The World," Time, 12/31/01)
 "When the day of infamy came, Giuliani seized it as if he had been waiting for it all his life, taking on half a dozen critical roles and performing each masterfully. Improvising on the fly, he became America's homeland-security boss, giving calm, informative briefings about the attacks and the extraordinary response." (Eric Pooley, "Mayor Of The World," Time, 12/31/01)
 "Calm, soothing and omnipresent, [Giuliani] gracefully embodies his city's power to endure. Dust-covered and soft-spoken, he traversed the Manhattan dead zone, congratulating exhausted firefighters, holding hands with grieving families and tracking rescue efforts. He became a stand-in leader for every corner of America dazed by the terrorist attacks." (Editorial, "Rudy To The Rescue," San Francisco Chronicle, 9/23/01)
 "Giuliani deserves all the praise and then some. 
. He was able to bark orders one moment, console victims the next, empathize publicly to the point of sobbing in front of the television cameras, and preach optimism, all the while reassuring New Yorkers that everything was under control. Or at least as much under control as humanly possible." (Editorial, "Rudy, New York's Rock," Chicago Tribune, 9/24/01)
 "If it could be said that New York got any kind of a break on September 11, it came from the fact that Rudy Giuliani was mayor. 
 – besides being of immeasurable comfort and aid to the citizens of New York and, indeed, the nation." (Editorial, "The Giuliani Effect," Washington Times, 11/9/01)
 "If ever a man had his destiny, Sept. 11 was Giuliani's. The twin towers lay in ruins, the mayor who had returned an "ungovernable" city to its rightful place as capital of the world had nearly perished. Yet here he was, our tower – solid, steady, the leader we needed in our terrible hour. Thank you, Rudy. We will never forget." (Editorial, "The Mayor's Finest Hour," Daily News, 12/27/01)