 – At a town hall today in Reno, Nevada, John Edwards will call on Nevadans to join him in his fight to give working and middle class families a voice in Washington. On the second day of his "Standing with Working Families" tour, Edwards will discuss his plan to take on the powerful corporate interests standing in the way of change and strengthen our economy, so working and middle class families have the chance to get ahead. Edwards' trip comes as he is gaining strength in Nevada leading up to the caucuses. Polls showing him moving up and staff, supporters and volunteers, along with the Carpenters, Steelworkers, Transport Workers and Communication Workers,have been hard at work making phone calls and knocking on doors to spread Edwards' message. Later in the day, Edwards will echo his remarks at a town hall in Las Vegas and will visit with steelworkers and Nevada veterans.
Edwards will outline his $100 billion jobs package and renew his call for immediate Congressional action to create jobs and strengthen the economy. Edwards will also strengthen our economy and help families by ending the housing crisis and helping save families' homes, cracking down on abusive lending practices, raising the minimum wage, making it easier for workers to join unions and enacting trade policies that put the interests of workers first.
"Today, too many working families in Nevada are struggling with debt and facing skyrocketing costs of everything from health care to education to gas," said Edwards. "Meanwhile, big corporate interests are getting every break imaginable from Washington. Working families need a president who will stand up for them, not big corporate interests. I've been fighting these interests my entire life, and I know that together we can take our country back."
Born to a working family and raised in small, rural towns, Edwards knows firsthand the struggles facing working families. He has spent his entire life standing up to powerful interests on behalf of families like the ones he grew up with. As president, Edwards will stand up for working families by: