 "Taxes. Insurance. Housing. All a mess."
 (Russell Berman, "Clinton's Big Tax Hike," The New York Sun, 5/30/07)
 "Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton said on Tuesday she might seek to scrap certain corporate tax breaks and subject CEO pay to public scrutiny if elected president in November 2008." (Brian Early, "Clinton Proposes Cutting Corporate Tax Breaks," Reuters, 5/29/07)
 "The other day the oil companies reported the highest profits in the history of the world. I want to take those profits and I want to put them into a strategic energy fund that will begin to fund alternative, smart energy. Alternatives and technologies that will begin to actually move us toward the direction of independence." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks At Democrat National Committee Winter Meeting, Washington, DC, 2/2/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Holly Ramer, "Clinton Promotes Shared Responsibility," The Associated Press, 5/29/07)
 (Robert Pear, "Candidates Outline Ideas For Universal Health Care," The New York Times, 3/25/07)
 (Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, CNN/WMUR/Union Leader Democrat Presidential Candidates Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/3/07)
 "There is no doubt that the tax system has been skewed, and the Bush tax cuts, people didn't need them and they weren't even asking for them. And that's why they need to be lapsed…." (Sen. Barack Obama, PBS' All-American Presidential Forum, Howard University, Washington, DC, 6/28/07)
 "Obama joins former North Carolina Democratic Sen. John Edwards in calling for higher taxes to help fix the nation's health care woes." (Rick Klein, "No Lip Service: Dems Trade Higher Taxes For Social Programs," ABCNews.com, 5/29/07)
 (S.Con.Res.21, CQ Vote #172: Adopted 52-40: R 2 – 40; D 48 – 0; I 2 – 0, 5/17/07; Obama Voted Yea)
 (Mairi MacDonald, "US Cat: State Vs Private – Fed Up?" Reinsurance Magazine, 12/19/07)
 (Mairi MacDonald, "US Cat: State Vs Private – Fed Up?" Reinsurance Magazine, 12/19/07)
 "The difference was that the two worst storms, Category 5 hurricanes, struck south of the U.S. this year. Had those two storms hit Florida, the insurance industry might have been faced with the long-expected — and dreaded — storm season with $100 billion in damages. The possibility of such devastating storms will keep Florida's homeowners-insurance rates high." (Anika Myers Palm, "State Still Seen As Catastrophe Magnet," Orlando Sentinel, 11/30/07)
 "Tightening credit-market conditions also could have been a problem if Florida had been struck by a catastrophic storm. If the state and insurers had needed to borrow money, the cost to borrow $1 billion would have been 12 percent higher in August than it would have been in January, [Robert Hartwig, president and chief economist of the New York-based Insurance Information Institute] said." (Anika Myers Palm, "State Still Seen As Catastrophe Magnet," Orlando Sentinel, 11/30/07)
 "When it comes to homeowner insurance rates, the news still isn't pretty for Florida consumers. Bob Hartwig, chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, an industry trade group, said Florida remains the most catastrophe-prone state because of its exposure to hurricanes. For homeowners, that means insurance rates in Florida are well above the national average and they're likely to go higher." (Beatrice E. Garcia, "Expect Insurance Rates To Rise, Expert Warns," The Miami Herald, 11/29/07)
 "The Bush administration is working to combat the country's severe housing crisis but there is no simple solution, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said Monday, adding that a correction in the housing market is 'inevitable and necessary.' Paulson said the country was facing an unprecedented wave of 1.8 million subprime mortgages that are scheduled to reset to sharply higher rates over the next two years. He said this raised the threat of a market failure and was the reason the administration brokered a deal with the mortgage industry to freeze certain subprime mortgage rates for five years to allow the housing market to recover." (Martin Crutsinger, "Paulson Says There Is No Simple Solution To Housing And Mortgage Crisis," The Associated Press, 1/7/08)
 (Chris Isidore, "Home Sales Sink, Outlook Darkens," CNNMoney.com, 
, 1/8/08)
 (Alan Zibel, "Nov. Housing Index Falls 2.6 Percent," The Associated Press, 1/9/08)
 "But Rudy Giuliani knows how to fix those."
 Giuliani: "I've seen how pro-growth policies lead to broader prosperity. We'll not only keep the current tax cuts in place or their equivalent, we'll enact additional tax relief and give the Death Tax the death penalty. High tax rates hurt business and destroy jobs. I know that tax cuts are good for the economy. It's not just theory for me because I cut taxes and got results as Mayor of New York City. As President, I will cut taxes further." (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website, 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President, "Giuliani Campaign Announces The Catastrophe Advisory Committee," Press Release, 1/10/08)
 (Standard & Poor's Website, 
, Accessed 1/10/08)
 (Standard & Poor's Website, 
, Accessed 1/10/08)
 (Marilyn Geewax, "Outlining GOP Candidates' Views On Economic Policy," Cox News Service, 12/11/07)
 "He reformed welfare before others tried."
 "Reformed Welfare"
 "[O]ur moral critique — if anything, I feel, in retrospect, I was not bold enough in Washington, DC. Our moral critique of the welfare state is going to accelerate, and the place it's happening is at the state and local governments. I mean, Giuliani, in his real reform of welfare, is in fact, behaving as an absolute revolutionary." (Newt Gingrich, Remarks At Progress And Freedom Foundation Conference, Washington, DC, 1/22/96)
 "The Giuliani administration, which created the nation's largest and most successful workfare program among single adults in the Home Relief program, is now extending the work requirement to recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children i.e., single mothers. The program continues the city's ambitious efforts at reform, one based on action. While Washington and Albany talk endlessly … Mayor Giuliani has raced ahead by going back to basics: work." (Editorial, "The Four-Letter Fix For Welfare," Daily News, 3/23/96)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
 (City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, December 2001 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 111)
. (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103)
 (Independent Budget Office Of The City Of New York, "Welfare And Work," 
, 2/14/05)
 "And delivered more tax relief than the other Republicans combined."
 "Delivered More Tax Relief"
 (Americans For Tax Reform President Grover Norquist, Letter To Mayor Rudy Giuliani, 12/3/07)
 (Fox News' "Your World," 10/17/07)
 Giuliani: "We wanted to reduce taxes and be able to accomplish some of that with the Democratic City Council, overwhelmingly Democratic. We ended up reducing taxes … 23 times successfully …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOKQ Radio's Don Brian, Portsmouth, NH, 3/12/07)
 (City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1996; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1997; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1998; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 2002)
 (New York City Office Of Management And Budget, Monthly Report On Current Economic Conditions; New York City Office Of The Comptroller, FY 2001 CAFR)
 (Bureau Of Economic Analysis Website, 
, Accessed 1/9/08; U.S. Census Bureau Website, 
, Accessed 1/9/08)
 (Bureau Of Economic Analysis Website, 
, Accessed 1/9/08; U.S. Census Bureau Website, 
, Accessed 1/9/08)
 (Congressional Biographical Guide Website, bioguide.congress.gov, Accessed 1/9/08)
 "Now Rudy will jumpstart our economy with the biggest tax cut in modern history."
 "Biggest Tax Cut in Modern History"
 (Americans For Tax Reform, "Rudy Giuliani Tax Cut Plan," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 Reagan's Was 1.9% Of GDP.'" (Matt Lewis, "Rudy's New Tax Plan Unveiled," Townhall.com, 
, 1/9/08, Accessed 1/9/08)
 (James Pethokoukis, "Giuliani's Shock-and-Awe Tax Plan," U.S. News & World Report's "Capital Commerce" Blog, 
, 1/10/08, Accessed 1/10/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Is The Real Fiscal Conservative Running For President," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 107)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Year 2008 To 2017," Congressional Budget Office, 1/07, p. 81)
 ("The Budget and Economic Outlook: An Update," Congressional Budget Office, 8/07, p. 20-21.)
 "Mayor Giuliani plans to simplify the tax code by introducing the Fair and Simple Tax (FAST) form. The FAST form gives American taxpayers the option of filling out their taxes on a single page, while cutting the current six brackets in half and preserving the major deductions that Americans depend upon – mortgage interest, charity, state & local taxes, the child tax credit, the personal exemption and the new health care exclusion." (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 (Giuliani For President, "Rudy Giuliani Outlines Plan To Cut Taxes And Reform The Tax Code," Press Release, 1/9/08)
 "Eliminate wasteful spending."
 "Eliminate Wasteful Spending"
 (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks On His 12 Commitments To The American People, Bedford, NH, 6/12/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Requiring agency heads to identify savings and increased efficiencies in each annual budget – as Rudy Giuliani did as Mayor – is a management tool that will lead to constant streamlining and more cost-effective government spending without compromising national security in the search for savings. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 Rudy's plan establishes a Government-wide Accountability Program ["GAPStat"] based on New York's successful CompStat program to better evaluate each agency, analyze the effectiveness of Federal programs, and identify those that are wasteful, failing or duplicative. (Rudy Giuliani For President Website 
, Accessed 11/19/07)
 "And he's the only candidate who'll fight for a national catastrophe fund to reduce insurance rates."
 "National Catastrophe Fund"
 "Lower Insurance Rates"
 "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
 "Giuliani supports one of the top priorities of Crist and other Florida leaders from both parties: creation of a national fund to help cover catastrophic loses from national disasters. The idea is to spread the risk and limit the liability of insurance companies so they can provide more affordable rates. 'You should have a federal backstop for once-in-a-century catastrophes, once-in-a-decade catastrophes, these horrible things that happen,' he said. He said beneficiaries and state and local governments need to absorb some risk. Noting New York's potential vulnerability to hurricanes and the West Coast's susceptibility to earthquakes, Giuliani said such a program would be good for other parts of the country as well as Florida." (Anthony Man, "Giuliani Visits Florida," South Florida Sun-Sentinel, 12/7/07)
 (Joe Follick and Lloyd Dunkelberger, "Parliamentarianism Clogs Clarity Quest," The [Lakeland, FL] Ledger, 4/8/07)
 (William March, "Giuliani Puts Democrats On Defensive," Tampa Tribune, 4/5/07)
 QUESTION: "Can you share your thoughts on a national catastrophic insurance program?" GIULIANI: "I just talked to your Governor about that. Talked to your Governor about it many times. He's explained it to me in great detail. The Attorney General, when he was a candidate, when I supported him, I think it is a very good idea. I think it's a very good idea not just for Florida, it's a very good idea for the whole country. We all need it. You need it for hurricanes, California needs it for earthquakes, somebody else needs it for tornadoes. New York needs it for ice storms and for hurricanes. During the time I was the mayor, my governor, Governor Pataki, had to deal with two really catastrophic ice storms in northern New York. We sent him some help, he did a great job of doing it, but we need that help. The parts of the country that think it only helps Florida, I think are missing all the other natural catastrophes and disasters and maybe they are not hurricanes, but they are all the other things I mentioned." (Mayor Giuliani, Remarks To Florida Legislators, Tallahassee, FL, 4/4/07)
 "Addressing a question about the impact of high property insurance rates on Florida's economy, Romney said he would like to investigate options for expanding the private insurance market before he supports a national catastrophic insurance fund, an idea endorsed by Florida Gov. Charlie Crist. If he were to support a multistate catastrophe fund, Romney said, it should include only states at high risk for natural disasters. 'I do not believe that you're going to hear the nation say we're going have other states subsidize states that are high risk,' he said." (Mike Salinero, "Romney Supports Letting All Cubans Migrate To U.S.," The Tampa Tribune, 11/28/07)
 "Though he appeared not to have given the topic much thought, Thompson also seemed inclined to oppose a national catastrophe insurance plan that could make property insurance more affordable in states prone to natural disasters, a critical issue in Florida." ("Thompson Sets Off Florida Alarms," Tampa Tribune, 9/20/07)
 "Asked about a national catastrophe fund to ease the property insurance crisis in Florida and other states, [Huckabee] was receptive but said he'd have to see the details. Rebuilding people's beach homes doesn't appeal to him, but, 'I come from a state that's prone to tornadoes and floods. I understand how devastating it can be, so I'm very sympathetic.'" ("State Is Gaining Clout, GOP Told," St. Petersburg Times, 5/20/07)
 "During their private meeting, Crist and McCain discussed the possibility of a national catastrophe fund, about which McCain said he wants to learn more. 'I want to read some of the fine print, but I think that what is being done here is the outline and the model of what needs to be accomplished,' he said." (Dara Kam, "McCain: I Meant To Say 'Judeo-Christian' Values," Palm Beach Post, 10/3/07)
 (Gov. Charlie Crist, Op-Ed, "National Catastrophe Fund Needed Now," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 5/14/07)
 (Editorial, "Crist Lobbies Congress," [Fort Lauderdale] Sun-Sentinel, 2/28/07)
 "Lastly, the Legislature should strongly back creation by Congress of a national catastrophe fund, to protect insurers from enormous losses and boost rate-lowering competition." (Editorial, "D-Day For The Legislature," Florida Today, 3/5/06)