Hillary Clinton is unveiling an aggressive $70 billion stimulus package today that would boost the U.S. economy and help families who have been hit hardest by the economic downturn across America.
Clinton will detail her five-part stimulus plan in a speech at the IBEW Hall in City of Commerce, CA. Her plan would specifically help homeowners who have been hurt by the housing foreclosure crisis, provide immediate relief to families who are facing skyrocketing energy bills, support workers who have lost their jobs, and make immediate investments in "green collar jobs" which will not only stimulate the economy, but improve the environment.
More than 37 million Americans would receive energy assistance under Clinton's plan, and hundreds of thousands of families would get help to avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. "Economists and politicians are finally waking up to what many of America's families already know: that we might be sliding into a recession," Clinton said.
"But when the bills are stacking up, and you're just one pink slip away from losing everything you've got, the last thing you need is more talk. In the face of rising global competition, our children's future is at stake. So we don't need more rhetoric, we need action. We need an immediate strategy to get our economy back on track. I would work with leaders from both parties to pass an aggressive, fast-acting stimulus package to create good new jobs and revitalize our economy."
Senator Clinton believes we need to jumpstart the economy without negatively affecting America's long-term fiscal position. In addition, her plan targets assistance toward hardworking families which are most likely to spend new resources, which will ensure that we give the economy an immediate boost.
Clinton also called on Congress to stand ready to provide an additional $40 billion in direct tax rebates to working and middle class families if the economy continues to worsen.
Today, Senator Clinton outlined an economic stimulus plan to help hard hit families and give our economy a much needed boost. Over a month ago, in a speech to Wall Street, Senator Clinton called on the Bush Administration to begin considering economic stimulus. In the month since, while the Administration has failed to act, we have seen growing signs that our economy is faltering. Tens of thousands of families have already been forced out of their homes. Recently, oil hit $100 a barrel, and last Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy lost jobs in the private sector in December for the first time in over four years. According to RealtyTrac, more than 201,000 foreclosure filings were reported in November alone, up 68 percent from the year before.
Hillary believes we need real action now. While economists may still be debating whether we've met the technical definition of a recession, for hard-hit middle class families that question has already been answered.
That is why today Senator Clinton called on the President and Congressional leaders from both parties to enact an aggressive, fast-acting stimulus package based on common-sense economic principles. Unlike 2001, when President Bush used stimulus as an excuse to force through long-term tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans - which ran up our debt to foreign governments while utterly failing to reignite job growth - Senator Clinton believes we need a strong immediate stimulus to jumpstart the economy without negatively affecting our long-term fiscal position. In addition, stimulus measures should be targeted toward hardworking families that are most likely to spend new resources, which will ensure that we give our economy an immediate boost. As President, Hillary would enact a five-part stimulus package that is consistent with these principles. This package includes:
 In addition to immediately adopting her 5-part plan, Senator Clinton called on Congress to stand ready to provide an additional $40 billion in direct tax-rebates to working and middle class families if economic circumstances continue to worsen. This additional $40 billion in tax relief should be designed to meet Senator Clinton's principles for stimulus: it should be fast-acting to kick-start the economy; temporary to be fiscally responsible; and progressive so that it has a high bang-for-the-buck. This means that rebates should not be partially or completely denied to tens of millions of lower income taxpayers, as was the case with President Bush's plan during the last economic contraction.