Hillary Clinton is unveiling an aggressive $70 billion stimulus package today that would boost the U.S. economy and help families who have been hit hardest by the economic downturn across America and Colorado.
Clinton detailed the five-part stimulus plan in a speech at the IBEW Hall in City of Commerce, CA. Her plan would specifically help homeowners who have been hurt by the housing foreclosure crisis, provide immediate relief to families who are facing skyrocketing energy bills, support workers who have lost their jobs, and make immediate investments in"green collar jobs" which will not only stimulate the economy, but improve the environment.
More than 592,000 Coloradans would receive energy assistance under Clinton's plan, and thousands of families would get help to avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes.
"Economists and politicians are finally waking up to what many of America's families already know: that we might be sliding into a recession," Clinton said.
"But when the bills are stacking up, and you're just one pink slip away from losing everything you've got, the last thing you need is more talk. In the face of rising global competition, our children's future is at stake. So we don't need more rhetoric, we need action. We need an immediate strategy to get our economy back on track. I would work with leaders from both parties to pass an aggressive, fast-acting stimulus package to create good new jobs and revitalize our economy."
Senator Clinton believes we need to jumpstart the economy without negatively affecting America's long-term fiscal position. In addition, her plan targets assistance toward hardworking families which are most likely to spend new resources, which will ensure that we give the economy an immediate boost.
Clinton also called on Congress to stand ready to provide an additional $40 billion in direct tax rebates to working and middle class families if the economy continues to worsen.
Faced with the 4th -highest foreclosure rate in the country, Colorado has seen a 27% increase in foreclosures from a year ago. Hillary's plan would impose a 90-day moratorium on foreclosures and place a freeze on adjustable rate mortgages to move at-risk homeowners into more reliable, fixed rate loans.
Colorado families have also been slammed by home energy costs, which have skyrocketed more than $2,000 a year since 2000. Clinton's plan would provide an average of $650 in immediate energy assistance to 592,000 Colorado families.