President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate William J. Brennan of Maine, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. Dr. Brennan currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for International Affairs and Acting Director of the U.S. Climate Change Science Program. Prior to this, he served as a Professor at the Maine Maritime Academy's Corning School of Ocean Studies. Earlier in his career, he served as Commissioner of the Maine Department of Marine Resources. Dr. Brennan received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maine, his master's degree from the University of Rhode Island, and his PhD from the University of Maine.
The President intends to nominate J. Gregory Copeland, of Texas, to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy. Mr. Copeland currently serves as Senior Partner for Baker Botts, LLP. Prior to this, he served as a Partner for Baker Botts, LLP. Mr. Copeland received his bachelor's degree from the University of Oklahoma and his JD from the University of Texas School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Dorla M. Salling, of Texas, to be a Member of the United States Parole Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 12/01/10. Ms. Salling currently serves as Chairman of the State of Nevada Board of Parole Commissioners. Prior to this, she served as District Administrator for the State of Nevada Division of Parole and Probation. Earlier in her career, she served as a Social Worker in the Texas Department of Human Resources, a Probation Officer in the Dallas County Adult Probation Department, and Operations Supervisor in the Nevada Department of Adult Parole and Probation. Ms. Salling received her bachelor's degree from Texas A&M University at Commerce.
The President intends to nominate Kurt D. Volker, of Pennsylvania, to be the United States Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary. Mr. Volker currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Europe and Eurasia at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as the Director of NATO Policy and Acting Senior Director for Europe at the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as a political officer at the United States Mission to NATO and on the NATO staff as Deputy Director of the NATO Secretary General's private office. Mr. Volker received his bachelor's degree from Temple University and his master's degree from The George Washington University.