 The President was joined by Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Joint Chiefs Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen, Ambassador Ryan Crocker, and Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England to talk to representatives from PRTs and BCTs in Baghdad, Kirkuk, Najaf, Karbala, Diwaniyah, Ramadi, and Diyala provinces.These men and women briefed the President on the changes that they are seeing firsthand on the ground in Iraq. PRTs are a key element of the new strategy for Iraq announced by the President a year ago. They are made up of hundreds of diverse personnel – including members from the State Department, USAID, the Departments of Justice and Agriculture, Coalition forces, and others. They are working to secure military gains by helping Iraq achieve necessary economic and political stabilization.
 The strategy called for:
 Many of these teams are "embedded" PRTs, created as part of the President's new strategy. These civilian-led teams work together with BCTs or Marine regiments to support the military surge in Anbar Province and the greater Baghdad area.
 Violence across Iraq continues to decrease, and tens of thousands of Iraqis have stepped forward to join Concerned Local Citizens groups that are fighting al Qaeda and other extremists. Life is returning to normal in communities across Iraq – and PRTs are working to help facilitate this transition and maintain progress by assisting provincial and local governments in delivering essential needs like schools, roads, and sewage and water services, with a focus on building local and regional capacity to provide government services.
 For example, the Kirkuk PRT last year helped broker a settlement that brought Sunnis back into the Province's local government – the Provincial Council.
 For example, the team established the Provincial Reconstruction Development Committee process, which now serves as a model for all other Iraqi provinces. As a result of this process, the Provincial Government was able to successfully execute its budget for the last two fiscal years.
 It is a 14 person team covering the Baghdad Districts of Mansour, Kadhimiya, and Karkh. The team includes four Foreign Service officers, two Army officers, three DOD civilians, and five contractors.
 While last year's security conditions forced these PRTs to have limited engagements with Najaf, Karbala, and Diwaniyah provinces, improved security has recently allowed the PRTs to travel to these three provinces and concentrate on rebuilding efforts: