 "El Presidente Reagan depositó su confianza en él para combatir el crimen."
 "President Reagan trusted him to combat crime."
 (Josh Barbanel, "Reaganism Now Liability For Giuliani," The New York Times, 10/11/89)
 (Associate Attorney General Rudolph Giuliani And D. Lowell Jensen, Memo To Attorney General William French Smith, 2/24/81)
 "At the Justice Department, Mr. Giuliani has been highly visible, particularly as one of the chief strategists of the Reagan Administration's stepped-up effort to combat narcotics trafficking. He was instrumental in devising the Reagan budget request of $130 million granted by Congress last year to finance 12 new investigative drug task forces across the nation." (Jane Perlez, "Giuliani Willing To Accept U.S. Attorney Job In State," The New York Times, 3/10/83)
 (Laurie Johnston and Suzanne Daley, "Camera Shy In Court House," The New York Times, 6/4/83)
 (Richard Stengel, "The Passionate Prosecutor," Time, 2/10/86)
 (Connie Bruck, "Rudolph Giuliani," The American Lawyer, 3/89)
 (Stephen Adler et al., "Litigator's Legacy," The Wall Street Journal, 1/11/89)
 "Nueva York lo eligió su alcalde cuando esa ciudad se veía perdida."
 "New York elected him mayor when the city seemed doomed (lost)."
 (Jack Newfield, Op-Ed, "Giuliani's Eight Years," Newsday, 12/30/01)
 ("New York: Giuliani Seeks To Delay NYC Recycling Law," Greenwire, 3/29/94)
 "Of all the problems Giuliani will face, none will loom larger – or sooner – than the question of what to do about the city's finances. Under a tough law passed after the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970s, he will be required to explain in January how he plans to close the gap in the current year's budget, estimated at about $400 million [and growing]. Soon after, he will be required to come up with the outline of his budget for the fiscal year starting next summer, which currently contains a projected $1.5-billion deficit [and growing]." (Karen Rothmyer, "Giuliani Seen As Good For Business," Newsday, 11/4/93)
 ("1993 Index Of Crime By Metropolitan Statistical Area," 1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report, p. 139)
 (Michelangelo Rucci, "Tales Of A Big, Rotten Apple," The Advertiser, 4/23/90)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 103; City Of New York Human Resources Administration, January 1999 HRA/DSS Fact Sheet)
 "At least a few New Yorkers have long despaired of making non-New Yorkers grasp the gargantuan perversity of the city's welfare system. Help has arrived. 'Hands to Work,' by Columbia journalism Prof. LynNell Hancock, purports to be an expose of welfare reform under Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. It is far more profitably read as a breathtaking tour of the mindset — supplied by the author and by those she writes about — that for decades made New York the welfare capital of the world." (Heather MacDonald, Op-Ed, "When Bad Habits Met A Mayor Who Wouldn't Put Up With Them," The Wall Street Journal, 1/23/02)
 "Rudy Giuliani. Redujo el crimen."
 "Rudy Giuliani. He cut down on crime."
 "Redujo el crimen"
 "He cut down on crime"
 (1993 FBI Uniform Crime Report; 2001 FBI Uniform Crime Report, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (Editorial, "Return Of The Squeegee?" New York Observer, 1/7/02)
 "According to FBI statistics, New York is the safest large city in the nation. From July 1, 1996, through June 30, 1997, the graphs showed 44% fewer major felonies and 60% fewer murders." (John J. Goldman, "Giuliani's State Of Mind Goes From N.Y. To National," Los Angeles Times, 10/18/97)
 ANDREW MURR: "Crime dropped dramatically in NYC when you were there and when Giuliani was mayor. He's taking credit for part of that. What portion of the credit does the mayor deserve?" BRATTON: "[I]t could not have been done without Giuliani. In New York City, one of the great strengths of [the mayor's] position is you have ability to coordinate all elements of the criminal-justice system. … But he deserves significant credit. It could not have been done with the speed and the comprehensiveness and the ultimate impact without him." (Andrew Murr, "Bratton Hugs Back," Newsweek.com, 
, 8/24/07, Accessed 8/24/07)
 
 BRATTON: "[Giuliani's] great strength was believing that you could do something about crime. … Giuliani basically fought all the political fights against all the naysayers who said it couldn't be done. So he provided the opportunity and the leadership and fought a lot of the political battles with what was at that time an extraordinarily liberal city." (Andrew Murr, "Bratton Hugs Back," Newsweek.com, 
, 8/24/07, Accessed 8/24/07)
 "The [Police] department under Mr. Giuliani created CompStat, which, as originally conceived, allowed precinct commanders to track and respond to major crime trends. The system was credited with helping drive down crime and was widely replicated in other cities." (Mike Mcintire, "New York's Falling Crime Rate Is A Potent Weapon For The Mayor," The New York Times, 10/5/05)
 "Rebajó los impuestos."
 "He lowered taxes."
 "Rebajó los impuestos"
 "He lowered taxes"
 Giuliani: "We wanted to reduce taxes and be able to accomplish some of that with the Democratic City Council, overwhelmingly Democratic. We ended up reducing taxes … 23 times successfully …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Interview With WOKQ Radio's Don Brian, Portsmouth, NH, 3/12/07)
 (City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1996; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1997; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 1998; City Of New York Executive Budget, Fiscal Year 2002)
 "Creó nuevos empleos y recortó la burocracia."
 "He created new jobs and slashed bureaucracy."
 "Creó nuevos empleos"
 "He created new jobs"
 "Recortó la burocracia"
 "Slashed bureaucracy"
 (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Private Employment Data, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (New York State Department of Labor, New York State Workforce & Industry Employment And Unemployment Data, 
, Accessed 3/12/07)
 (City Of New York Office Of Management And Budget, The City Of New York Executive Budget Fiscal Year 2002 Message Of The Mayor: Appendix 5A, p. 276)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 (City Of New York Office Of Operations, Reengineering Municipal Services 1994-2001, p. 267)
 "Se pudo en Nueva York y se puede en Washington. Rudy Giuliani: Experiencia, Resultado, Liderazgo."
 "It was done in New York. It can be done in Washington. Rudy Giuliani: Experience, Results, Leadership."
 "Soy Rudy Giuliani y apruebo este mensaje."
 "I'm Rudy Giuliani and I approved this message."
 "As the 1988 Republican nominee, Vice President George Bush will lug with him a long list of political liabilities. … But with the right choice [for Vice President] … Bush could simultaneously turn disadvantage to advantage and the political world on its ear. … Now admittedly Rudolph Giuliani is not a household name, but if you need references … [G]iuliani led the prosecution of the 'pizza connection' in which eight New York Mafia chiefs were convicted and jailed. Who put corrupt executives from Wedtech … behind bars? It was the same man who put Bronx Democratic boss Stanley Friedman away and the prosecutor who risked the wrath of editorial writers, organized labor and politicians by moving for a takeover of the corruption-ridden Teamsters' union. There is a strong argument against putting any first-time candidate on a national ticket. Nobody, it's argued, is prepared for the scalding scrutiny. But you know that Rudolph Giuliani, who has terrorized dirty cops, sleazy politicians and criminals on Wall Street, has been investigated by all of them in an effort to discredit him. Death threats have not slowed him down. He's clean as a hound's tooth; he's gone after all the big boys; he's tough as nails, incorruptible and as untouchable as Eliot Ness. How about it, Mr. Vice President?" (Mark Shields, Op-Ed, "A Prosecutor For VP," The Washington Post, 7/12/88)
 (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, "Campaign Kicks Off 'Rudy Gets Results' In New York City's Times Square," Press Release, 10/15/07)
 "As the Washington spending juggernaut steams furiously ahead, Rudy Giuliani has offered to toss several monkey wrenches into its gears. Wednesday in Des Moines, Iowa, the Republican presidential frontrunner unveiled several attractive ideas to 'restore fiscal discipline and cut wasteful Washington spending.' … Why should anyone believe Giuliani ever would implement such clever plans? Well, he already has. As mayor of New York, Giuliani used similar reforms to reverse the city's decline and rejuvenate its finances." (Deroy Murdock, Op-Ed, "Rudy's Fiscal Roadmap," National Review, 6/22/07)
 "[Steve] Forbes concurs, saying that [Giuliani] 'demonstrated in New York, one of the most liberal big spending cities and largest cities, that he could do the right thing fiscally' by restraining spending and by reducing or cutting 23 taxes. Forbes believes that "we could use a dose in Washington D.C." of what Giuliani did in New York" (Jennifer Rubin, "Rudy's Financial Team," Human Events Online, 7/11/07)