 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest web ad, "Roundhouse Kick." Governor Mike Huckabee and Chuck Norris may be campaigning together but they don't see eye to eye on fighting crime. Norris believes in giving a presidential pardon to "no one, ever." Governor Huckabee granted 1,033 pardons and commutations, including 12 convicted murderers. The Texas Ranger can subdue criminals with just his icy stare. Now only if he could convince Governor Huckabee it was wrong to grant more clemencies than the previous three governors combined.
 "Two good men, both into fitness. Both love Chuck Norris.
"But where do they stand on crime?
"Chuck Norris: 'give a presidential pardon to no one, ever.'
"Norris subdues criminals with just an icy stare.
"And Mike Huckabee? He granted 1,033 pardons and commutations, including 12 convicted murderers.
"Huckabee granted more clemencies than the previous three governors combined.
"Chuck Norris, Mike Huckabee. Now who deserves the roundhouse kick?"
 
 "Two good men, both into fitness. Both love Chuck Norris. But where do they stand on crime? Chuck Norris: 'give a presidential pardon to no one, ever.' Norris subdues criminals with just an icy stare."
 "I was wondering the other day, if I ran for president, what would be my campaign promises? I made a list I'm certain can get me elected. If I'm elected president, I will... Give a presidential pardon to ... no one, ever. Baretta was right in the '70s, 'Don't do the crime, if you can't do the time. Don't do it!'" (Chuck Norris, "If I Am Elected President," WorldNet Daily, 6/11/07)
 "And Mike Huckabee? He granted 1,033 pardons and commutations, including 12 convicted murderers. Huckabee granted more clemencies than the previous three governors combined. Chuck Norris, Mike Huckabee. Now who deserves the roundhouse kick?"
 "As governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee had a hand in twice as many pardons and commutations as his three predecessors combined. ... Huckabee granted 1,033 pardons and commutations in his 10 1/2 years as governor of Arkansas. The acts of clemency benefited the stepson of a staff member, murderers who worked at the governor's mansion, a rock star and inmates who received good words from their pastors. ... During his years as governor, Huckabee granted clemency an average of about once every four days. Huckabee's successor, Mike Beebe, has issued 40 so far this year, fewer than one a week. Bill Clinton, Frank White and [Jim Guy] Tucker granted 507 clemencies in the 17 1/2 years they served as governor." (Andrew DeMillo, "Huckabee Pardons Under Scrutiny," 
, 12/10/07)
 "During his tenure, Huckabee has been criticized for his use of the clemency powers. Through April, the total sentence commutations issued by Huckabee were 146, 
, according to records at the secretary of state's office. A clemency can be either a sentence commutation or a pardon for someone who has already discharged his sentence, such as in Richards' situation." (Seth Blomeley, "It's A Gas, Gas, Gas: Rocker Seeks Pardon For '75 Fordyce Arrest," 
, 7/19/06)
 