 A serious look at Gov. Mike Huckabee's record and policy beyond the one-liners. As in:
 "And the ultimate thing is, I may not be the expert that some people are on foreign policy, but I did stay in a Holiday Inn Express last night." ("Imus In The Morning," 12/4/07)
 "In sum, conservatives should have worries about the depth and soundness of Mike Huckabee's foreign-policy views. And staying at a Holiday Inn Express is not going to be enough to allay them." (Editorial, "The Holiday Inn Express Candidate, 
, 12/10/07)
 "Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee defended his failure to read the National Intelligence Estimate on Iran in early December, joking in an interview Monday that President Bush didn't read intelligence reports for four years. ... 'Maybe I should've said, "Have you read the report?" President Bush didn't read it for four years; I don't know why I should read it in four hours.' His comment about President Bush appears to be a reference to allegations made by Bush's critics that Bush didn't pay close enough attention to intelligence reports, particularly in the early years of his presidency." (Dan Gearino, "Huckabee Pokes Fun At Bush Over Reading Intelligence Reports," 
, 12/31/07)
 " 
. This is the latest in a long line of inaccurate and misleading comments that got us into the Iraq war to begin with. They further diminish the credibility of a President with a dangerous record of overstating threats." (Sen. Reid Press Release, US Fed News, 12/4/07)
 "'The whole perception was based on an ambush question on the NIE report,' Huckabee said in an interview Monday with the Quad-City Times. 'From there, it was like, 'Wow.' That was released at 10 o'clock in the morning. At 5:30 in the afternoon, somebody says, 'Have you read the report?'" (Dan Gearino, "Huckabee Pokes Fun At Bush Over Reading Intelligence Reports," 
, 12/31/07)
 "That particular day [when the NIE came out], which I thought it was a little bit ridiculous to talk about, the report came out at 10 in the morning and it was like five in afternoon. [Editor's note: The National Intelligence Estimate report stating that Iran was not pursuing nuclear weapons came out Monday Dec. 3. Huckabee was first asked about it in the evening of Dec. 4]" (Michael Scherer, "Mike Huckabee-The Front Runner Q&A," 
, 
, Posted 12/31/07)
 "When asked to clarify, Huckabee said this: 'The point I'm trying to make is that, on the campaign trail, nobody's going to be able, if they've been campaigning as hard as we have been, to keep up with every single thing, from what happened to Britney last night to who won "Dancing with the Stars."' He said the campaign learned from the criticism related to the Iran report and now he gets regular briefings about developments in foreign policy." (Dan Gearino, "Huckabee Pokes Fun At Bush Over Reading Intelligence Reports," 
, 12/31/07)
- 
 "Baptist minister and anti-abortion supporter Mike Huckabee was asked today about 16-year old celebrity Jamie Lynn Spears' decision to continue her unplanned pregnancy. While the candidate has been notably caught off-guard by breaking news events recently, today he passed a test of pop culture with flying colors." (Mary Hood, "Huckabee's Happy Spears Is Keeping Her Baby," CBS' From The Road Blog, 
, Posted 12/20/07)