 Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
 Today, Governor Mitt Romney filed a slate of at-large delegates with the Republican Party of West Virginia for the West Virginia Republican Presidential Convention. Romney for President Political Director Carl Forti released the following statement:
"Today, the Romney campaign reinforced our commitment to winning the support of West Virginia's Republicans at the National Republican Convention in Minneapolis by submitting our slate of at-large delegates for West Virginia's own Presidential Convention. West Virginians are looking for a new set of ideas and new leadership that will make our nation stronger. Governor Romney has the vision, values and experience to take Washington apart and put it back together so that it works better for the American people. Governor Romney is an effective, proven, and conservative leader that West Virginians can be proud to support."
Governor Romney was the first Republican Presidential candidate to campaign in West Virginia, the first candidate to announce he will compete in the West Virginian Presidential Convention, and the first to file to do so, in August of 2007.
 Ashley is a member of the West Virginia Legislature and a former Minority Leader in the West Virginia House of Delegates. He lives in Spencer.
 Clise is a lifelong Republican activist living in Romney.
 Ellis, of Bruceton Mills, is Chair of the Preston County Republican Party.
 Evans is a Member, West Virginia Legislature. He lives in Dorcas.
 Gearheart is the Chair of the Mercer County Republican Party. He lives in Bluefield.
 Grimm is the Wood County Assessor. He lives in Parkersburg.
 Haden lives in Charleston, and is a civic leader in Kanawha Leader.
 Long is the Chair of the Marshall County Republican Party. He lives in Glen Dale.
 Loudin is a member, of the Randolph County Republican Executive Committee. He lives in Elkins.
 Mays, of Martinsburg, is the former Chair of the Berkeley County Republican Party.
 McKinney, of Bridgeport, is the Chair of the Harrison County Republican Party.
 O'Neill, of Morgantown, is the Vice Chairman of the West Virginia Republican State Executive Committee.
 Phillips, of Elkins, was the Chief of Staff to former Governor Cecil H. Underwood.
 Potter, who lives in Charleston, is the Chair of the Kanawha County Republican Party.
 Rader, of Ripley, is Chair of the Jackson County Republican Party.
 Riggall, of Charleston, is a member of Kanawha County Republican Women.
 Shaffer, of Morgantown, is a member of the West Virginia Republican State Committee.
 Wakim, of Wheeling, was a 2006 Congressional candidate and is a former member of the West Virginia Legislature.