 Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
 Today, Romney for President launched its newest television ad, "Permanently." The ad highlights the critical choice Americans will have to make when it comes to confronting the growing problem of illegal immigration. On this issue, the records are very clear. In the United States Congress, Senator John McCain championed a bill to let every illegal immigrant stay in America permanently. In Massachusetts, Governor Romney opposed driver's licenses for illegal immigrants, vetoed in-state tuition breaks for illegal immigrants and authorized state law enforcement to enforce immigration laws. On enforcing our immigration laws, there's a big difference between Senator McCain and Governor Romney.
The ad will begin airing today as part of the campaign's rotation in New Hampshire. Script and viewing links are below.
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
 "Mitt Romney and John McCain on immigration.
"McCain championed a bill to let every illegal immigrant stay in America permanently.
"He even voted to allow illegal immigrants to collect Social Security.
"Mitt Romney said 'no' to driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.
"'No' to tuition breaks for illegal immigrants, and he authorized his State Police to enforce federal immigration law.
"On illegal immigration, there's a big difference."
 
 "I'm Mitt Romney and I approved this message." ANNOUNCER: "Mitt Romney and John McCain on immigration. McCain championed a bill to let every illegal immigrant stay in America permanently."
- 
 "The McCain plan – which is being put forward in the U.S. House by Arizona GOP Congressmen Jeff Flake and Jim Kolbe – allows the 11 million illegal immigrants already in the U.S. to stay in the country if they apply for legal status and pay a $2,000 fine." (Mike Sunnucks, "Napolitano, Hayworth Criticize Bush On Illegal Immigration," 
, 2/1/06)
 "He even voted to allow illegal immigrants to collect Social Security."
 "Specter, R-Pa., motion to table (kill) the Ensign, R-Nev., amendment no. 3985 that would bar illegal immigrants currently in the country from claiming Social Security credits for work done in years before they are assigned a valid Social Security number." (S. 2611, CQ Vote #130: Motion Agreed To 50-49: R 11-44; D 38-5; I 1-0, 5/18/06, Clinton, Kennedy, And McCain Voted Yea)
 (Charles Hurt, "Illegals Granted Social Security," 
, 5/19/06)
 "On its way to bankruptcy, Social Security will get there a bit sooner if President Bush, Republican senators (and prospective presidential candidates) John McCain, Chuck Hagel and Sam Brownback and the overwhelming majority of Democratic senators get their way. ... During the Senate debate on immigration reform in May, Mr. Ensign proposed that no illegal alien whose status would be adjusted by the Senate bill be permitted to receive Social Security benefits as a result of unlawful activity. ... In addition to Messrs. McCain, Hagel and Brownback, other still-serving Republicans who opposed the Ensign amendment, which lost by a 50-49 vote, included Sens. Lindsey Graham, Richard Lugar, Mel Martinez, Arlen Specter, Ted Stevens and George Voinovich." (Editorial, "Social Security Siphon," 
, 1/5/07)
 "Mitt Romney said 'no' to driver's licenses for illegal immigrants."
 "'Those who are here illegally should not receive tacit support from our government that gives an indication of legitimacy,' the governor said, echoing arguments that opponents have voiced in the Commonwealth and in other states considering similar license measures. 'If they are here illegally, they should not get driver's licenses,' he said." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Romney Stand Dims Chances Of License For Undocumented," 
, 10/28/03)
 "'No' to tuition breaks for illegal immigrants, and he authorized his State Police to enforce federal immigration law. On illegal immigration, there's a big difference."
 "Mr. Romney said he was not prepared to provide 'special benefits' to illegal immigrants in the state. 'Our desire is to help legal immigrants,' he said. 'I do not believe that, out of respect for the law, that we can provide special benefits to illegal immigrants. We have a responsibility to uphold the law, and providing special benefits to those who are here in contravention of the national law, in my view, would be a mistake.'" (John J. Monahan, "Immigrant Tuition Bill Defeated," 
, 1/12/06)
 "Mr. Romney also cut several outside sections, including a plan that would allow illegal aliens to pay in-state tuition rates at state colleges and universities; he said the plan would encourage illegal immigration." (Shaun Sutner, "Romney Approves $22.5B Budget," 
, 6/26/04)
 "Governor Mitt Romney is seeking an agreement with federal authorities that would allow Massachusetts state troopers to arrest undocumented immigrants for being in the country illegally. ... Under the agreement Romney is seeking, troopers would have greatly expanded powers: They could check an immigrant's legal status during routine patrols such as during a traffic stop and decide whether the immigrant should be held. 'It's one more thing you can do to make this a less attractive place for illegal aliens to come to work,' Romney said." (Yvonne Abraham and Scott Helman, "Troopers Would Arrest Immigrants," 
, 6/21/06)
 