: Emmy Award-winning actor Richard Schiff, renowned for his role as White House Communications Director Toby Ziegler on the hit political drama "The West Wing," will make stops in Waterloo, Independence, Manchester, Elkader, Dubuque, Mason City, Ames, and Des Moines, Iowa this week to stump for Sen. Biden ahead of the January 3rd caucuses.
"The West Wing inspired its audience to seek the kind of presidential leadership that is based on experience, judgment, wisdom, and conscience," said Schiff. "On January 3rd, Iowans will have the opportunity to choose a president who can deliver that leadership by caucusing for Joe Biden. I believe that the enormous challenges facing our country at home and abroad—from safely leaving Iraq, to improving our education system, to the crisis that erupted yesterday in Pakistan—require Joe Biden's expertise in foreign affairs and constitutional law, his ability to unite the country, and his steadfast values, which include, most importantly, telling the truth. Iowa, and America, need Joe Biden because he is ready to lead from Day One and in the high-stakes world we live in, there are no re-takes."
Richard Schiff began his career as a theater director in New York and later founded and served as the artistic director of the Manhattan Repertory Theatre, where he directed both on-and off-Broadway productions. After later shifting into acting, Schiff earned roles in numerous hit television series and films. Schiff won an Emmy in 2000 for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series for his role as White House Communications Director Toby Ziegler on "The West Wing." He was subsequently nominated two more times for this role in 2001 and 2002. Born and raised on the East Coast, he now lives in Los Angeles with his wife, actress Sheila Kelley.

  Waterloo Center for the Arts

  225 Commercial Street

  Waterloo, IA


  Bill's Pizza & Smokehouse

  201 1st Street W

  Independence, IA


  Pizza Ranch

  1100 W Main Street

  Manchester, IA


  Johnson's Restaurant

  916 1/2 High Street NE

  Elkader, IA


  National Mississippi River Museum and Aquarium

  350 E 3rd Street

  Dubuque, IA


  Masonic Temple Association of Mason City

  304 1st Street SE

  Mason City, IA


  Location TBD

  Ames, IA


  Location TBD

  Des Moines, IA

