ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign held a press conference call launching the McCain Truth Squad to set the record straight about John McCain's military service in the face of recent attacks on his record: 
 "Let me start back in 1973, I was Secretary of the Navy under Nixon and then Ford and worked with John McCain when he was released from the prison camps and returned to resume his career in the United States Navy actively. I've also spent the last 17 years as either Chairman or Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and during that period of time I got to know General Clark quite well, worked with him professionally and actually travelled with him to the Balkans and Kosovo and frankly had a regard for his military capabilities. And I was utterly shocked when I saw this yesterday, knowing Clark as I have, that he would in a disrespectful way attack one of his fellow career military officers. I also have served in the Senate with Barack Obama, we have a good friendly relationship, and to the extent that he had knowledge of this I find it an exercise of poor judgment to allow individual like Clark with t he least experience in politics of all of them, trying to come in and do this attack."
...
"As I have said, I have been on this Committee now 30 years and John has been on roughly 20 or a few more. We have been working side by side. I have been in the Oval Office with I think, I just ran a calculation, five presidents when matters of national security were discussed and the president sought the advice of Members of Congress. And I know on one or two of those occasions John McCain was with me. And as I draw on my own experience dealing with the White House many years and been on the Committee, John has gotten experience that Obama simply doesn't have." 
 
 "I have had the honor of knowing Senator McCain for quite some number of years. I think that we met down at Cecil Field when he was beginning his tour in VA 174. I was on my way to a squadron at the time. I can tell you that the squadron he was given, he was assigned to was a very large squadron, a very difficult squadron to command because it had enormous responsibilities with respect to maintenance schedules and training of pilots and enlisted personnel for all of the fleet squadron. I would judge his capabilities based on the product that I got from the replacement training squadron that Senator McCain commanded, he did a spectacular job there. His military experience, rather his leadership experience at that squadron in it of itself is noteworthy. But also in Washington later in Senator McCain's career when he was in the office of Senate Legislative Affairs and I worked with him because I had a job over on the personn el side. I've also watched him on the Senate Armed Services Committee. It is inconceivable to me that anyone would take a shot at Senator McCain's military service or say he lacks any experience because he didn't command troops in wartime. Senator McCain has shown capabilities, a command style that most people envy and General Clark is way off base on this one."
...
"What General Clark said was that Senator McCain was untested and untried. Please explain to me what qualifies a person to be untested -- to be tested and tried in General Clark's opinion. Given Senator McCain's experiences all across the board -- as his years of service in the Navy, his years of service in the Congress, on the Senate Armed Services committee. How much more experience do you need to be tested and tried? 
 "It was truly surprising to me. Senator Obama someday may have the good fortune to be able to engage with foreign leaders or to have become as well read as John McCain in history and in national security affairs, but it doesn't exist right now and for General Clark to portray John McCain as somehow unqualified is truly an unworthy comment that is astonishing to me. We couldn't find truly today in contemporary political leadership of our country a better qualified person to lead us in international affairs in solving the rather daunting agenda problems we have to face in the years ahead." 