 Vietnam Veterans across New Jersey today responded to Gen. Wesley Clark's attack on John McCain's military service record on CBS' "Face the Nation":
 issued the following statement:
"Senator McCain has shown leadership and commitment to his comrades while serving as a prisoner of war. His personal sacrifice and decades of service make him uniquely qualified to be Commander in Chief. General Clark's comments were ill-conceived and inappropriate. He should apologize to the veterans' community."
 
 issued the following statement:
"What qualifies Senator McCain to be Commander in Chief is the incredible mental and physical courage that he demonstrated as a prisoner of war for more than five years. I have a tremendous respect and affection for Senator McCain as do my fellow Vietnam Veterans."
 
 (1966-1968) issued the following statement:
"John McCain knows what it's like to sit in that that cockpit and take incoming fire. Combat missions over North Vietnam tested John McCain and taught him to react effectively to pressure. Senator Obama's never served in the military and it is appalling for his campaign to minimize Senator McCain's record."
 
 "Gen. Wesley Clark, acting as a surrogate for Barack Obama's campaign, invoked John McCain's military service against him in one of the more personal attacks on the Republican presidential nominee this election cycle. Clark said that McCain lacked the executive experience necessary to be president, calling him 'untested and untried' on CBS' 'Face the Nation.' And in saying so, he took a few swipes at McCain's military service." (Josh Kraushaar, "Clark Hits McCain's Military Credentials," 
, 6/29/08)
• 
 "I don't think getting in a fighter plane and getting shot down is a qualification to become president." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)
• 
 "He has been a voice on the Senate Armed Services Committee. And he has traveled all over the world. But he hasn't held executive responsibility. That large squadron in the Navy that he commanded -- that wasn't a wartime squadron." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)