 Failure to pass the liability protection contained in the House bill for companies that assisted our intelligence professionals after the 9/11 attacks will undermine our partnership with the private sector. Such cooperation is essential to protecting the country from another terrorist attack. The Senate should pass the bipartisan House legislation so our intelligence professionals can better protect Americans from foreign threats.
 Companies may also be less willing to assist the government in the future if they face a threat of private lawsuits each time they are alleged to have provided assistance.
 The Attorney General and Director of National Intelligence have reported that "even prior to the expiration of the Protect America Act, we experienced significant difficulties in working with the private sector because of the continued failure to provide liability protection for such companies."
 A major purpose of the retroactive liability protections in the bipartisan House bill is to provide for the expeditious dismissal of lawsuits once the Attorney General certifies, and the district court confirms, that companies provided assistance in response to a request from the Government. The Senate Intelligence Committee, in a bipartisan report, concluded that any companies that provided assistance acted in good faith and that permitting the lawsuits to continue could deter the private sector from providing lawful assistance to the intelligence community in the future.
Allowing these lawsuits to continue would be unfair because any companies that assisted us after 9/11 were assured by our government that their cooperation was legal and necessary. More than 40 such lawsuits have been filed, seeking hundreds of billions of dollars in damages from these companies. These lawsuits are good for class action trial lawyers, but they are terrible for the United States.
It makes no sense to give the enemy critical knowledge about what the United States is doing to protect the American people. But this is what could happen if the Senate allows massive and costly class-action lawsuits to proceed, which would increase the risk of revealing the methods used by our Intelligence Community to monitor foreign terrorist communications.