ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain spokesman Tucker Bounds issued the following statement in response to the Obama campaign calling stories about Jim Johnson "overblown and irrelevant": 
 
 "This story is overblown and irrelevant. This an overblown story about what appear to be completely above-board transactions." ("Obama Camp Talking Points On Jim Johnson And Countrywide," Time Magazine's "The Page," 
, 6/9/08) 
 "Countrywide Financial Corp. makes mortgage loans through a vast network of offices, brokers and call centers. But a few customers have gotten their loans a special way: through Countrywide Chief Executive Angelo Mozilo. These borrowers, known internally as 'friends of Angelo' or FoA, include two former CEOs of Fannie Mae, the biggest buyer of Countrywide's mortgages, say people familiar with the matter. One was James Johnson, a longtime Democratic Party power and an adviser to Sen. Barack Obama's campaign, who this past week was named to a panel that is vetting running-mate possibilities for the presumed nominee." (Glenn R. Simpson and James R. Hagerty, "Countrywide Friends Got Good Loans," 
, 6/7/08)
 (Glenn R. Simpson and James R. Hagerty, "Countrywide Friends Got Good Loans," 
, 6/7/08)
 (Obama For America Website, 
 , Accessed 5/19/08) 
 MSNBC's Keith Olbermann: "Senator Clinton not stopping to hear a reporter's question about Mark Penn, let alone answer it, leading Penn's counterpart in the Obama campaign to fill in the vacuum about Penn's non-departure departure this morning on MSNBC." David Axelrod: "She's stuck him with him through the revelation that his firm was working fro Blackwater and working for Countrywide, and, you know, so, it's kind of stunning. Remember that the embassy said they weren't sure whether he was there as a representative of his firm or a representative of Senator Clinton. I mean, I think there are issues associated with this. I'm not - you can use the word hypocrisy, but there are certainly questions that arise from this." (MSNBC's "Countdown," 4/7/08)