 Nonfarm payroll employment decreased by 49,000 jobs in May, and the unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent. Although the unemployment rate remains below the averages for the past three decades, these numbers are disappointing. Other May data has appeared more positive than the first quarter.
 Had it not been for the President's tax relief, Americans would have paid an additional $1.3 trillion in taxes by the end of 2007. If the President's tax relief is allowed to expire at the end of 2010, Americans will pay about $280 billion more in taxes each year.
 FHA also recently announced a plan to expand the program to help even more families refinance their mortgages. In total, FHA expects to help about half a million families refinance by the end of the year.
 By working together, participants in the mortgage industry have helped more than one and a half million families stay in their homes.
 A modernized FHA that is granted appropriate pricing flexibility could help thousands of additional homeowners by the end of this year. In April of 2006 President Bush first sent Congress an FHA Modernization bill, and more than two years later, Congress has still not passed it.
 A strong regulator can also make sure that these enterprises do not take actions that place taxpayers or the financial system at increased risk. GSE reform and FHA modernization represent the appropriate next steps to address the housing downturn.
 Congress should allow environmentally-safe exploration in Northern Alaska. The Department of Energy estimates that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could allow America to produce about 800,000 additional barrels of oil each day – a more than 15 percent increase of crude oil production over today's production level.
 As Congress begins the debate on climate change, its members must recognize that bad legislation would raise fuel prices and raise taxes on Americans without accomplishing the important goals the Administration shares.
 The Environmental Protection Agency estimated in March that the bill, as reported, could reduce U.S. Gross Domestic Product by as much as seven percent – more than $2.8 trillion – in 2050. The Energy Information Administration estimated the bill could reduce U.S. manufacturing output by almost 10 percent in 2030 – before even half of the bill's required reductions have taken effect. The impact on consumers from the combination of the high compliance costs and the new tax-and-spend programs in the bill would be enormous.
 Unfortunately, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has blocked a vote on the U.S.-Colombia free trade agreement. If this decision stands, it will kill the agreement and hurt American business and workers. By obstructing this agreement, Congress is signaling to countries in our hemisphere and around the world that the United States cannot be trusted to support its allies. Congress is likewise showing that it is not interested expanding job opportunities for Americans here at home.
 Exports now account for a larger share of our GDP than at any other time in history, and jobs supported by goods exports pay wages 13 to 18 percent higher than the national average. Real exports grew by 9 percent over the four quarters ended in the first quarter.