ARLINGTON, VA -- Governor Tom Ridge today issued the following statement to Pennsylvania voters on joining "Citizens for McCain," a new grassroots effort headed by Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT) to rally Americans of all political parties to support John McCain's candidacy:
"Now that we are beginning the general election, I would like to welcome citizens of our great Commonwealth, whether they are Democrat, Independent, or supporters of Senators Clinton and Obama, to join the McCain campaign.
"I've known Senator McCain for more than 25 years, since our first days in Congress together. He has a long record of reaching across the aisle to work with Democrats to achieve bi-partisan results. John doesn't think in terms of red or blue; he thinks in terms of red, white and blue -- leadership for the greater good.
"I invite you to visit Senator McCain's website at 
 to learn more about this much-respected and experienced leader. I'm confident that you will be proud to support to John McCain, as he continues to run a campaign that is both positive and focused on the issues so vitally important to the good people of Pennsylvania and all Americans." 
 
To: Fellow McCain Supporters
From: Senator Joe Lieberman
Date: June 5th, 2008
Today, I asked Senator McCain if I could create and chair a new grassroots organization, "Citizens for McCain."
Citizens for McCain is an organization within the McCain campaign for people who put country before political party and support the candidate for President who has a proven record of bipartisanship.
As you know, I caucus with the Democrats as a United States Senator and was the Democrat Party's nominee for Vice-President of the United States against President Bush and Vice President Cheney.
But first and foremost, I am an American. I have an obligation to do what I think is best for our nation regardless of political party. My love for this country and strong belief in John McCain's character, judgment, and willingness to work with leaders of both parties has convinced me to support him for President.
I have worked with John McCain for many years in the U.S. Senate and know from experience that he can unite Democrats, Republicans and Independents like no one else in this country. He did it in the United States Senate and he can do it as President of the United States.
But we need help from McCain supporters such as you to reach out to Americans who are not currently involved in the campaign. Will you help us by recruiting your friends, family, and co-workers who may not consider themselves members of the Republican Party and ask them to join the Citizens for McCain organization?
I am confident we will find many Democrats and Independents who, like John McCain and me, put country before political party and will support a leader with a real record of bipartisanship.
Time and time again John McCain has put his country first. He refused early release when he was held captive in Vietnam. He continued to put his country first as a national leader in the U.S. Senate. He put country before party when he fought to pass campaign finance reform, sought a bi-partisan solution to the immigration problem, and consistently supported pro-environment policies. His courage to stand up to the failed Iraq war plan of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and lead the fight for a new strategy in Iraq will go down in history, and it saved American lives. These were not always the easy things to do. In fact, they were usually very difficult, and often threatened his political career. But John McCain did what was right.
He said it best in his speech in New Orleans on Tuesday night: 
The phones at the campaign headquarters have been ringing with disaffected Democrats calling to say they believe Senator McCain has the experience, judgment, and bipartisanship necessary to lead our country in these difficult times. Many of these supporters are former supporters of Senator Clinton.
Senator McCain has had a very good working relationship with Senator Clinton and will continue to do so in the future. In the same New Orleans speech he said: 
I am proud to call John McCain my friend and ask you to help our friend become the next President of the United States.
Please forward this email to your lists today and ask your friends, family, and coworkers who do not consider themselves Republicans to join me in filling out the Citizens for McCain form today.
Thank you for your willingness to help me expand this new organization. Together, we will make history.