 By the end of last year, Americans would have paid an additional $1.3 trillion in taxes had it not been for the President's tax relief. If the President's tax relief is allowed to expire at the end of 2010, Americans will pay about $280 billion more in taxes each year. With the largest tax increase in history looming, Congress should make the President's tax relief permanent.
 Taxes will increase for 116 million income taxpayers who will see their taxes go up by an average of $1,800. It will force many families to accept a nearly 200 percent tax increase. In addition:
 A typical family will pay $500 more per child in taxes, and 43 million families with children will face an average tax increase of $2,323. American families are facing higher costs in the grocery line and at the gas pump. Americans deserve to keep more of their income. If Congress allows the President's tax relief to expire:
 If Congress does not act to make the tax relief permanent, the death tax will come back in full force. In addition, the tax rate on dividends will return to a maximum of 39.6 percent and the top tax rate on long-term capital gains will climb from 15 percent to 20 percent.
 Nearly 75 percent of the taxpayers who benefit from the reduction in the top rate are small business owners. The looming tax increases are affecting today's economy by creating uncertainty, which causes small businesses to think twice about expanding or hiring new workers. These tax increases will harm economic growth by taking more money from small business owners and sending it to politicians in Washington.
 Six million American households will be added to the income tax rolls, and low-income families with one or two children wouldn't be eligible for the refundable child tax credit.
 Thanks in part to the President's tax relief, our economy continues to grow. President Bush's tax cuts has provided $1.3 trillion in relief through 2007 and will continue to provide:
 The President's tax relief has reduced the marginal effective tax rate on new investment, which encourages additional investment and in the long-term, higher living standards for workers.