 At the White House, the President discussed a display of products from businesses that would benefit from trade liberalization, and urged Congress to approve our free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. The companies represented at the White House have created jobs, increased prosperity, and proven that they can compete in the global market. In order for these and other U.S. businesses to continue growing, the government needs to keep working to reduce foreign trade barriers, enabling companies to compete on a level playing field.
 Unfortunately, rather than hold the up or down vote that Congress committed to, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi chose to block it. If this decision stands, it will kill the agreement and hurt American small business owners and workers.
 Today, over 90 percent of Colombia's exports to the United States enter duty-free, but American businesses that export to Colombia – including nearly 8,000 small and mid-sized firms – face tariffs of up to 35 percent on industrial and consumer products and much higher tariffs on many agricultural goods. If Congress approves the Colombia free trade agreement, upon entry into force, it would immediately eliminate tariffs on more than 80 percent of American exports of industrial and consumer goods, on more than half of U.S. agricultural exports, and, over time, on 100 percent of American goods exports.
 It is estimated that more than 5.5 million American jobs are related to manufacturing exports. At a time when our economy is facing challenges, our commitment to trade is more important than ever.
 In 2007, Panama and the United States exchanged more than $4 billion worth of goods – nearly twice as much as just four years ago. The U.S.-Panama free trade agreement will build on this vibrant trade relationship by immediately eliminating tariffs on 88 percent of U.S. industrial and consumer goods exported to Panama and on more than 60 percent of U.S. agricultural exports.
 The U.S. International Trade Commission estimates the reduction of Korean tariffs and tariff-rate quota provisions on goods market access alone would add $10-12 billion to annual U.S. GDP.