President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals and appoint one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate James Franklin Jeffrey, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey. Ambassador Jeffrey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor at the White House. Prior to this, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Baghdad, United States Ambassador to Albania, and three other assignments in Turkey. Ambassador Jeffrey received his bachelor's degree from Northeastern University and his master's degree from Boston University.
The President intends to appoint Wayne B. Paugh, of Virginia, to be Coordinator for International Intellectual Property Enforcement at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Paugh currently serves as Senior Advisor and Acting Coordinator for International Intellectual Property Enforcement at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, he served as Senior Counsel at Venable LLP. Earlier in his career, he served as Chief of Staff to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Mr. Paugh received his bachelor's degrees from the University of South Florida, his master's degree from the University of Miami and his JD from George Mason University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on Disability for three-year terms beginning 09/18/08:
Marylyn Andrea Howe, of Massachusetts, (Individual with a Disability);
Heather McCallum, of Georgia, (Individual with a Disability);
Lonnie C. Moore, of Kansas, (Individual with a Disability);
Christina Alvarado Shanahan, of North Carolina.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation:
John O. Agwunobi, of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 02/09/14, and upon appointment designate Chairperson;
Julius E. Coles, of Georgia, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/22/11;
Morgan W. Davis, of California, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 11/13/13;
John W. Leslie, of Connecticut, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/22/13, and upon appointment designate Vice Chairperson.