 Over the next five months, we will debate the future direction of our country. In the end, the American people will recognize that John McCain is a leader we can believe in ready to act to protect our country, grow our economy and reform our government.
 No matter who wins this election, the direction of this country is going to change dramatically.
 Many of the government's failing policies were designed for the problems and opportunities of the mid to late 20th Century. The right kind of change will initiate widespread and innovative reforms in almost every area of government policy. The right change stops impeding Americans from doing what they have always done: overcome every obstacle to progress, turn challenges into opportunities, and make a better country and safer world.
 Like others before him, Sen. Obama seems to think government is the answer to every problem and should make our decisions for us. That type of change doesn't trust Americans to know what is right or what is in their own best interests. That type of change and attitude created the unresponsive bureaucracies of big government in the first place. It is not change we can believe in.
 In his short-time in office, Sen. Obama has accumulated the most liberal voting record in the Senate. But the old, tired, big government policies he seeks to dust off and call new won't work in a world that has changed dramatically since they were last tried and failed. That's not change we can believe in.
 Sen. Obama describes every policy of the President as the "Bush-McCain" policy. He will repeat this often, because he knows it's very difficult to get Americans to believe something they know is false. The American people know John McCain has a long record of bipartisan problem solving putting country ahead of any President, party or special interest.
 They have disagreed over the conduct of the Iraq war, detainee treatment, government spending, budget gimmicks, energy policy, climate change, and defense spending that favors contractors over the public good.
 For doing so, he was criticized by Republicans, Democrats and the press. But in the last year, we have seen the strategy's success as violence has fallen to a four year low; Sunni insurgents have joined us in the fight against al Qaeda; the Iraqi Army has taken the lead in places once lost to Sunni and Shia extremists; and the Iraqi Government has begun to make progress toward political reconciliation.
 Americans ought to be concerned about the judgment of a presidential candidate who says he's ready to have unconditional meetings with tyrants, but hasn't traveled to Iraq to meet with General Petraeus.
 John McCain has opposed wasteful spending by both parties and the Bush administration. As President, he will freeze non-military, non-veterans discretionary spending until a top to bottom review of all federal programs is completed. He opposes subsidies that favor big business over small farmers and tariffs on imported products that have greatly increased the cost of food.
 Sen. Obama opposes freezing discretionary spending while a top to bottom review of government programs is completed. He supports the billions of dollars in corporate subsidies and the tariffs that have led to rising grocery bills for American families. That's not change we can believe in.
 He will pay for these increases by raising taxes on seniors, parents, small business owners and every American with even a modest investment in the market. He doesn't trust the American people to make decisions for themselves. That's not change we can believe in.
 No problem is more urgent today than our dependence on foreign oil. It threatens our security, economy and environment. The next President must be willing to break completely with the energy policies of past administrations. We must unleash the genius of Americans, and encourage industries to pursue alternative, non-polluting and renewable energy sources.
 He voted for the energy bill promoted by President Bush and Vice President Cheney, which gave even more breaks to the oil industry. John McCain opposed it because we won't achieve energy independence by repeating the mistakes of the last half century. That's not change we can believe in.
 Sen. Obama might criticize special interests that give more money to Republicans, but he doesn't take on those that favor him. John McCain has a record of taking on the special interest. Sen. Obama does not.
 His approach was opposed by President Bush and leading Democrats, and it was defeated by opposition from special interests.
 His plan will break from inflationary practices, insurance regulations and tax policies that were designed generations ago. He will give families more choices over their care.
 His plan represents the old ways of government.
 Lowering trade barriers to American goods and services creates more and better jobs, keeps inflation under control, keeps interest rates low, and makes more goods affordable to more Americans. To help workers, John McCain will reform from top to bottom our unemployment insurance and retraining programs and make use of our community colleges to train people for new opportunities.
 He pretends we can address the loss of manufacturing jobs by repealing trade agreements and refusing to sign new ones; that we can build a stronger economy by limiting access to our markets and giving up access to foreign markets. He defers to the special interests that support him. That's not change we can believe in.
 The American people are sick of the politics of selfishness, stalemate and delay. We have to change not only government policies that have failed them, but the political culture that produced them.
 Americans have seen John McCain put aside partisan and personal interests to move this country forward. When partisanship came in the way of progress, John McCain sought to find a compromise to move forward. When he fought corruption, it didn't matter if the culprits were Democrats or Republicans. When he worked on campaign finance and ethics reform, John McCain did so with Democrats and Republicans.
 Sen. Obama hasn't been willing to make the tough calls; to challenge his party; to risk criticism from his supporters to bring real change to Washington.