 – Urging rural Kentucky voters to support the presidential candidate who can best expand opportunities for agriculture and rural America, a pair of New York 'travelers' set out across the Bluegrass State this week to promote the success of Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton's (D-NY) rural and agricultural initiatives in New York State.
The travelers, made up of a New York dairy farmer, another former dairywoman and creamery owner and the Senator's Ag Policy Adviser, plan to reach out to farmers and rural residents. They will be making stops in Kentucky to promote Clinton's positive impact on New York agriculture and it's small communities.
"Hillary has a proven record of creating and promoting programs that help farmers and rural communities, "said Ed King, a dairy farmer from Saratoga County, a rural area in northern New York. "She knows the importance of the agriculture industry in maintaining a strong economy, and the key role that small towns and rural communities play in America."
"Senator Clinton's support has allowed Mercer's dairy to grow, add jobs, completely make over an aging facility, and keep eight dairy farmers in agriculture. This makes our agribusiness infrastructure strong and vibrant," said Hurlburt. "The efforts of Senator Clinton and her staff have enabled a small business like mine to become a pioneer in a large industry segment."
Ed King is the senior member of the King's Ransom Farm in Saratoga County, NY. It is a dairy and Holstein breeding family farm that sells to domestic and international markets. King also served 11 years as the Deputy Commissioner of Agriculture in New York State.
Roxaina Hurlburt is partner with seven other dairy farmers in Mercer's Diary in Boonville, N.Y. She credits Senator Clinton with helping to rescue her failing dairy by connecting Hurlburt with cooperative extensions in upstate New York and showcasing Mercer's products at her "New York Farm Day" on Capitol Hill.
Sen. Clinton was also instrumental in Mercer's connecting with government agencies to acquire needed federal and state licenses. These advocates are part of a larger "Travelers for Hillary" group made up of more than 100 farmers, rural and economic developers from upstate New York. The group has already toured states such as Iowa, New Hampshire, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Indiana, and North Carolina, on behalf of Clinton.
Hillary is committed to expanding opportunities for rural communities and small towns in America. As a Senator, she has fought hard to maintain programs in resource conservation, economic development and agriculture that are vital to the environmental and economic health of family farms. From her creation of rural trading cooperatives (e-commerce initiatives), to her Farm-to-Fork initiative, to her efforts to create better access to credit and capital for business entrepreneurs, to her support for broadband in all rural areas, and her efforts to keep VA facilities open, Hillary is dedicated to helping small towns and rural communities thrive.
For more information, please log on to 
.