(Charleston, WV) - The Clinton campaign today announced its West Virginia for Hillary Leadership Council, a group of leaders from across the state who are working to make Hillary successful in the primary.
"I am honored and grateful to have the support of so many leaders from across West Virginia," said Clinton. "I look forward to coming back to the Mountain State in the coming days and meeting face to face with West Virginians to discuss how we can find real solutions to the challenges facing working families."
The West Virginia for Hillary Leadership Council includes labor leaders, members of the State Senate and House of Delegates, Democratic Party leaders, the WVU Student Body President, and other leaders who represent communities throughout the state.
"Hillary Clinton shares the values of West Virginians. She will be a strong advocate for working families and will fight to make our country safer, stronger, and more secure starting day one," said Kent Carper, President of the Kanawha County Commission.
"This is an historic moment for West Virginia. We are proud to be playing a central role in choosing Hillary Clinton as the next President of the United States," said Chuck Smith, former Chair of the West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee.
The announcement of the Leadership Council comes as the campaign's strong statewide network of supporters continue to urge friends and neighbors to Vote Early for Clinton, offering rides, knocking on doors, and making calls. Early Vote ends on May 10. West Virginia's primary is one week from tomorrow.
Lane Bailey, Former Chief of Staff to Senator Jay Rockefeller; Worldwide Director Golin Harris, Public Affairs; Board of Governors, Concord University


 Vice Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee


 Member, House of Delegates (30th District)


 Member, House of Delegates (22th District)


 Former member, House of Delegates


 Former member, House of Delegates


 President, Kanawha County Commission


 Circuit Clerk, Marion County


 Member, House of Delegates (44th District)


 Mayor of Williamstown


 AFT-West Virginia


 International Representative, Communications Workers of America


 Executive Director, AFSCME


 Member, House of Delegates (30th District), Registered Nurse


 Mayor of Morgantown


 Member, House of Delegates (20th District)


 Member, House of Delegates (43rd District)


 DNC National Committeeman; Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee


 Mayor of Hinton


 Executive Director, West Virginia Nurses Association; CEO, WVNA Foundation


 House of Delegates (41st District)


 Former Morgantown City Council Member


 Former Deputy Staff Director, U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs


 Member, State Senate (13th District)


 Student Body President, WVU


 Member, House of Delegates (10th District); Director of Governmental Affairs, IUPAT District Council 53


 DNC National Committeewoman


 Member, State Senate (13th District)


 Former Speaker Pro Tempore of the West Virginia House of Delegates


 Morgantown City Council Member


 Clarksburg City Council Member


 Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee


 WWII Veteran, 110th Women's Army Corps


 2nd Vice Chairman, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee


 Member, House of Delegates (56th District)


 Former Chair, West Virginia State Democratic Executive Committee


 Ret. Adjutant General of the West Virginia Army National Guard