 Both payroll employment and the unemployment rate fell slightly in April. The unemployment rate decreased to five percent, below the averages for the past three decades, but nonfarm payroll employment decreased by 20,000 jobs. While job losses are never welcome, this was a small decline in employment and we have been anticipating that the early part of 2008 will be the weakest part of the year. Fortunately, President Bush and the Congress anticipated this period of slow economic growth and enacted a bipartisan economic growth package, which is expected to have beneficial effects this quarter and through the remainder of the year.
 During the first week alone, nearly 7.7 million Americans will receive their tax rebates electronically, and the IRS will begin mailing checks to millions more Americans across the country next week. By this summer, the Treasury Department expects to have sent rebates to about 130 million American households.
 These rebate payments will inject more money into our economy, support job creation, and boost economic growth. These rebates will return up to $600 for individuals, $1,200 for married couples, and $300 per child. As these rebates start to go out, a family of four could receive a tax rebate of $1,800. The package also includes incentives for businesses to make investments in new equipment this year, which will help to create jobs. These incentives have been in place for a few months.
 expands the FHA's ability to offer refinancing by giving it the flexibility to also work with homeowners who have relatively good credit histories but cannot afford increased payments resulting from a rate reset.
 HOPE NOW is a cooperative effort among mortgage counselors, servicers, investors, and lenders to maximize outreach efforts and provide professional counseling to struggling homeowners and to help homeowners refinance into a new mortgage or receive a modification. HOPE NOW membership now covers over 90 percent of the subprime mortgage market.
 This Act created a three-year window for homeowners to refinance their mortgage and pay no Federal taxes on any debt forgiveness they receive.
 Congress should allow the environmentally-safe exploration in Northern Alaska. The Department of Energy estimates that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge could allow America to produce about one million additional barrels of oil each day – a 20 percent increase of crude oil production over U.S. levels.
 A modernized FHA that is granted appropriate pricing flexibility could help thousands of additional homeowners by the end of this year, and passage of this bill is a good next step to help bring stability to the housing market. Two years ago, the President first sent his FHA modernization bill to Congress – now is the time for Congress to act and ensure that this program, created during the New Deal, remains a good deal in the 21st century.
 Under current law, tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds are only available to finance first-time homebuyers and cannot be issued for refinancing.
 If the President's tax relief is allowed to expire at the end of 2010, 116 million taxpayers would see their taxes go up by $1,800 on average and our economy would suffer.
 If this decision stands, it will kill the agreement and hurt American business and workers. By obstructing this agreement, Congress is signaling to countries in the hemisphere and around the world that the United States cannot be trusted to support its allies.
 Over 90 percent of imports from Colombia enter our country duty-free, but the 9,000 American businesses that export to Colombia – including 8,000 small and mid-sized firms – face tariffs up to 35 percent on their non-agriculture products. Colombian tariffs on many U.S. agricultural products can be even higher. Once implemented, the agreement will eliminate tariffs immediately on more than 80 percent of American exports of industrial and consumer goods and on the remaining 20 percent of American exports over time. Leveling the playing field would make American products more competitive in Colombia, and would help support higher paying jobs here in the U.S.
 This trade agreement will bring new economic opportunities to Colombia's citizens and will reinforce democracy by supporting a country whose courageous leader is fighting corruption, increasing transparency, combating violence, and fostering accountability and rule of law.
 Exports now account for a larger share of our GDP than at any other time in history, and jobs supported by goods exports pay wages 13 to 18 percent higher than the national average.