 Rising prices have complicated our worldwide food assistance efforts and made it more difficult for the United States to meet its existing commitments, much less help the growing number of people who need aid. To address this problem, two weeks ago the Administration announced that about $200 million in emergency food aid would be made available through a program at the Agriculture Department called the Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust. This aid, along with the additional funds requested from Congress, amounts to nearly $1 billion in new funds to bolster global food security. With other food security assistance programs already in place, the U.S. is now projected to spend nearly $5 billion in 2008 and 2009 to fight global hunger.
 This funding will also allow the U.S. to fund agricultural development programs that help farmers in developing countries to increase their productivity, which will help reduce the number of people who need emergency food aid in the first place.
 In his 2008 State of the Union Address, President Bush called on Congress to support a proposal to purchase up to 25 percent of food assistance directly from farmers in the developing world. Congress should approve this measure as soon as possible in order to build up local agriculture and increase the ability to get goods to market.
 For 2008, we expect to expand the number of Americans who receive food stamp assistance to 28 million and increase the benefit level by 6.5 percent. This will add about $30 a month on average, for a family of four.
 These donations are distributed through The Emergency Food Assistance Program.
 With this new funding, the Administration will have increased support for WIC by 18.6 percent this year. These steps are to help ensure that eligible low-income women and children are able to deal with the increase in food prices.
 The Administration expects to distribute about $90 million in foods under this initiative.
 U.S. food prices have increased far less than global food prices and a similarly small percent of the increase is attributed to biofuels production. Without increased ethanol production, food price inflation in the United States would have been 4.25 percent over the past 12 months rather than 4.5 percent. One of the reasons U.S. food prices have increased less than global food prices is because Americans consume more processed and restaurant foods, while developing countries consume more basic commodities. The spike in commodity prices directly impacts the global food price.