"Today, America speaks anew to the peoples of the world: All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know: the United States will not ignore your oppression, or excuse your oppressors. When you stand for liberty, we will stand with you."
 During Fiscal Year 2007, the United States provided $78 million in approximately 40 countries to promote media freedom and freedom of information. President Bush has met with many journalists and editors who are struggling against forces that seek to suppress media freedom. We salute these courageous individuals, and we recognize the importance of the right to a free press in spreading freedom around the world.




 The most powerful weapon in the struggle against extremism is the universal appeal of freedom. Freedom is the best way to unleash the creativity and economic potential of a nation, the only ordering of a society that leads to justice, and the only way to achieve and permanently protect human rights.
 This fund began with $1.5 million and will be replenished as needed: 
 The Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Request strengthens governance and the rule of law and fosters independent media, democratic political parties, voter education, election monitoring, and human rights. The Fiscal Year 2009 Budget requests $1.72 billion for these activities, up from approximately $1.36 billion in Fiscal Year 2008 and $650 million in Fiscal Year 2001. In addition, the Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Request provides $80 million for the National Endowment for Democracy, up from $31 million in 2001.
 America is working with its partners through multilateral organizations to advance freedom and liberty. This includes:
 These nations have taken action to confront extremists, yet they have a great distance to travel to expand liberty and transparency. The U.S. will continue to press nations like these to open up their political systems and give a greater voice to their people.

The President has met personally with more than 100 dissidents, democratic and human rights activists, and independent journalists and their family members, including: