 This morning, Hillary renews calls for stepped up enforcement of trade laws at the Alliance for American Manufacturing Forum in Pittsburgh, PA.
 At last night's Compassion Forum at Messiah College, Hillary said, "I don't think that I could have made my life's journey without being anchored in God's grace and without having that...sense of forgiveness and unconditional love." Read more and more.
 "Hundreds of people" lined the street in Scranton yesterday to see Hillary. At a press availability, Hillary responded to questions about Sen. Obama's recent comments about small town America: "Democrats have reached out to me to say that we can't afford for people to believe that the Democratic Party is elitist and out of touch. Because honestly, how do we expect people to listen to us if we don't hear them and we don't respect their values and their way of life?...We're at a point in America where we need to be bringing people together to help solve our problems...People don't need a president who looks down on them; they need a president who stands up for them." Listen here. Read more.
 Hillary went door-to-door in the Philadelphia suburb of Drexel Hill yesterday. Said one supporter: "I never thought this time would come. It was amazing." Read more.
 Sitting down for a breakfast interview, Hillary told the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, "I work hard to be the kind of person that is a good friend, a good family member, a good public servant." Read more.
 The campaign is releasing its second "NC Ask Me" ad...out of nearly 10,000 questions submitted, Tammie Bright of Cherryville submitted the first question selected: "What are your plans on reducing the rising cost of gas?" Watch Hillary's answer here. Yesterday, "Jewel" was released in NC where 91-year-old Jewel Hodges says she supports Hillary because "she had to climb up the rough side of the mountain in life. I saw her take her faith, courage, dignity, and climb that mountain with determination." 
 Yesterday, just two days after the Terre Haute office was destroyed by a fire, volunteers met at the sight to canvass. State Director Robby Mook said, "Our volunteers are resilient in their support for Hillary," calling their continued work "a testament to [their] dedication."
 After the Alliance for American Manufacturing Forum, Hillary attends the Philadelphia County Democratic Dinner in Philadelphia, PA. followed by a "Solutions for the Pennsylvania Economy" rally in Bristol, PA.
 Politico explores how "Obama can reveal moments of aloofness or tone deaf reactions that belie his image as the epitome of polished." Read more.