"In discussions about the Colombia free trade agreement, some members of Congress have raised concerns about the conditions in Colombia. President Uribe has addressed these issues. He's addressed violence by demobilizing tens of thousands of paramilitary figures and fighters. He's addressed attacks on trade unionists by stepping up funding for prosecutions, establishing an independent prosecutors unit, and creating a special program that protects labor activists. ... If this isn't enough to earn America's support, what is? President Uribe has done everything asked of him. While Colombia is still working to improve, the progress is undeniable - and it is worthy of our support."
 ("House Gives Leaders Power To Stop Fast-Track Clock," 
, 4/10/08)
 Congress needs to move forward with the Colombia free trade agreement and approve it as quickly as possible.
 (Alexander Bolton, "House Adopts Rule Freezing Colombia Trade Deal," 
, 4/11/08)
 The Administration has held more than 400 consultations, meetings and calls on the agreement, led trips to Colombia for more than 50 members of Congress, and worked closely with Congressional leaders from both parties.
 (Nicole Gaouette, "U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement Put On Hold," 
, 4/11/08)
 (Press Briefing With Cabinet Secretaries, The White House, 4/9/08)
 (Nancy Pelosi, Weekly Press Conference, Washington, D.C., 3/13/08)
 In response to concerns over attacks on trade unionists, President Uribe established an independent prosecutors unit and created a special program to protect labor activists. Today, approximately 1,950 trade unionists are receiving protection under the Colombian Ministry of Interior and Justice's protection program.
 (Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, Charlie Rangel, and Sander Levin, Statement On Trade, 6/29/07)
 According to the Colombian Ministry of Defense, since 2002, kidnappings have dropped 83 percent, terrorist attacks have dropped 76 percent, and murders have dropped by 40 percent.
 These efforts took 500 metric tons of cocaine off the market in 2006 alone, depriving terrorist groups of hundreds of millions of dollars in funds to buy arms and mount attacks. In addition, the Colombian government has extradited more than 600 narcotics traffickers and terrorists to the United States over the past five years.