At a speech in Philadelphia today, Hillary Clinton unveiled an ambitious new anti-crime agenda that would cut the murder rate in big cities in half and put 100,000 new police officers on America's streets. Through her plan called "Solutions for Safe and Secure Communities Now," Hillary would also invest $1 billion competitive grant program to reduce the number of repeat offenders and the size of the population in prisons and juvenile lock-ups nationwide. In addition, Hillary will partner with states and communities to support early intervention programs that would prevent at-risk youth from engaging in criminal activity.
"It is a sad day in America when the President can find hundreds of billions of dollars to police another country's civil war, but cuts funding for police officers right here at home," said Clinton. "We deserve better. Our mayors like my friend Mayor Nutter shouldn't be tackling this problem alone. At its core, my agenda is about responsibility. It's about the federal government living up to its responsibility to help restore order in our communities, pave the way for economic development and new jobs, and help our families feel safe in their homes and neighborhoods."
Hillary delivered her remarks at the West Philadelphia YMCA, joined by Mayor Michael Nutter, who has made fighting crime a top priority. In Philadelphia, there were 392 murders last year – an average of more than one murder a day. In the plan, Hillary addresses many of the issues that big city mayors confront, including gang violence, drug sales, and illegal gun trafficking. Mayor Douglas Palmer of Trenton, NJ and President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors also joined Hillary at the event.
Hillary also calls for additional funds to stop online crimes such as child exploitation and identity theft. Hillary will 
direct the Attorney General to make online child exploitation and harassment a major federal priority, and vigorously prosecute identity theft, particularly theft of children's identities. She will strengthen and vigorously enforce federal laws against online child exploitation, and she will dramatically increase funding for state Internet Crimes Against Children task forces.
Representatives from numerous community organizations attended the event including the Philadelphia Housing Authority Tenants Association, Mothers in Charge, PA Ceasefire, Grandparents as Parents, and the NAACP.
After major reductions in the 1990s, violent crime has been on the rise in recent years, and in many places the threat is growing rapidly, fueled by a dangerous mix of drugs, illegal guns, and at-risk youth who often believe they have nowhere to turn but to gangs and violence. More than 1 in 100 Americans are now behind bars, 19 out of 20 will eventually return to their communities – 700,000 per year, not necessarily better than when they went in. Offenders leaving our nation's prisons will account for almost 10 million new crimes by 2013. The Police Executive Research Forum has described a "gathering storm" of violent crime. The Third Way projects that – unless policies or facts on the ground fundamentally change – a growing youth population will account for additional 2.5 million crimes by 2012.
As President, Hillary Clinton will move swiftly and decisively to restore the federal government's commitment to helping states and local governments reduce violent crime. Her agenda is built on the idea of partnership. The federal government will serve as a partner with states, counties and communities – supplying the necessary resources, innovative practices and technological support to help states and local governments confront the evolving challenges of crime and hometown security.
Hillary's crime agenda will address the urgent challenge of violent crime rates and homicide, and work to close the prison revolving door, protect children and families from 21
 Century threats like methamphetamine and online child exploitation. As President she will:
 From 1994 through 2000, violent crime fell 29% and the murder rate fell 39%. From 2000 to 2006, violent crime fell only 6% – the murder rate actually rose 9%. [FBI 2002, 2006; James Alan Fox, 2007.] And in 2005 and 2006, the violent crime rate rose in two consecutive years for the first time since the passage of the Clinton Crime Bill in 1994. From 1993 to 2001, the number of crimes involving guns fell by roughly half, but has risen by almost 20% since President Bush took office. Meanwhile, per capita police protection rates in large cities have fallen by roughly 10%. [FBI, 2000, 2006; Fox, 2006.]
 A recent Pew Center Study found that more than 1 in 100 American adults are now behind bars. Last year, the 50 states spent a total of $44 billion in tax dollars on corrections, up from nearly $11 billion in 1987. The costs to our communities do not just come in dollars, but in the form of repeat offending: Nineteen out of 20 offenders currently in prison will leave prison eventually; roughly two out of three will be rearrested; and roughly half will end up back behind bars within just three years of leaving prison.
 North Carolina's Attorney General issued a report finding that more than 29,000 registered sex offenders have signed up for MySpace, a popular site that attracts millions of young people. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children and Crimes Against Children Research Center found that seven percent of girls who used the Internet reported "aggressive solicitations, in which solicitors made or attempted to make offline contact." But estimates indicate that only 2% of known cases of online child exploitation are being investigated due to a lack of resources.
 Bush budgets have cut criminal justice aid to state and local law enforcement in half. [Office of the Majority Leader, 2007.] In 2006, the Bush Justice Department outright eliminated the COPS hiring program that put 100,000 new community police officers on the beat in the 1990s. Congress has now partially restored the program. COPS works: Yale economist John Donohue found that each $1.4 billion invested in the COPS program is likely to generate a benefit to society from $6 billion to $12 billion. Philadelphia and other cities and counties have suffered because of the Bush administration's neglect: Philadelphia is down 500 officers from its personnel high during the Clinton Administration. The looming recession makes the problem more urgent. Battered by the economic downturn and neglected by the administration, cities and towns across Pennsylvania and the United States are being forced to make impossible choices between laying off cops, cutting aid for schools, or raising taxes in a recession.
 This proposal builds on local efforts, such as Mayor Michael Nutter's pledge to cut the homicide rate in Philadelphia, and seeks to replicate successes like we have seen in New York City, where homicides have fallen from more than 2,000 per year in the early 1990s to less than 500 in 2007. Hillary will task the Deputy Attorney General with overseeing this initiative, which will have the following components:
Hillary will also make available gang and drug funding to cities facing violent crime problems but where homicide is less of a challenge. In addition to these components, Hillary will make sure that federal government law enforcement – including the FBI – has the resources it needs to serve as an effective partner with states and local communities, including developing and sharing intelligence on drug trafficking and gangs that operate across state and national borders.
 Hillary is proposing a new, strengthened COPS (Community Oriented Policing Services) hiring grant program. COPS 2.0 will provide funding for 100,000 new community police officers and ensure that they are trained, equipped and deployed in the most effective ways to work in partnership with communities to prevent violent crime. The program will focus on hot spots of criminal activity, in big cities and elsewhere. It will promote intelligence-led policing – the strategic gathering, analysis and sharing of intelligence to identify and target the most serious threats and dangerous criminals – as a complement to community policing. It will also make available personnel grants to fund counter-terrorism cops as well as community police officers.
COPS 2.0 will award both a five-year personnel grant and an accompanying TAT (technology and tactics) grant to local governments, updating and upgrading the original COPS personnel and technology grants. Even as it encourages new technologies and tactical innovations, the program will maintain the premise of the original COPS program that there is no substitute for an uniformed police officer on patrol to reduce crime. COPS 2.0 will help communities field an increased police presence and implement a mixture of the following approaches:
 Police 
departments have been hit hard by call-ups of officers to active duty in the Armed Forces. Returning veterans often seek job opportunities where they can use their skills and serve their country. As part of COPS 2.0, Hillary will establish a "Vets to Cops" initiative that sets aside up to 5% of the COPS positions over the next five years for members of the Armed Forces, Reserves, and National Guard. Building on the "Troops to Cops" program of the 1990s, Hillary will direct the Justice Department to actively recruit returning veterans to continue their public service by joining local police forces.
 Community-oriented prosecutors have a key role to play in reducing crime, just as community-oriented police do – and they need federal funding and support, just as community oriented police do. Community prosecutors focus not just on closing cases and clearing dockets, but on reducing crime and improving the quality of life in the neighborhoods to which they are assigned. Hillary will allocate $250 million per year to help local district attorneys hire and train community prosecutors.
 Hillary will reverse the funding cuts to the Byrne Justice Assistant Grant program and restore funding to other DOJ local law enforcement assistance programs. Of course, all of these grants will be subject to audit by the Inspector General to prevent and deter waste, fraud and abuse. Hillary will also make permanent and fully fund the Bulletproof Vest Program.
. Hillary will establish this $1 billion competitive grant to help states and local governments reduce the crime rate and protect their communities:
At the federal level, Hillary will reform mandatory minimums for non-violent offenders, starting by eliminating the mandatory minimum for simple possession of crack cocaine and eliminating the disparity between crack and powder cocaine.
 Research has repeatedly proven that some of our most powerful policies to help reduce crime and violence focus on prevention. For example, a study of one high-quality after-school program found that boys left out of the program averaged six times more crimes than teens in the program. And over fifteen years, children who participated in the Nurse Family Partnership program experienced 69 percent fewer convictions at age 15. Hillary has already proposed significant early investments that will pay off in less crime over the long run, including:
:
 She will:
 She will create a grant program that funds pilot projects in local communities to help them build a defense against meth addiction, particularly for young people, families with children, and pregnant and postpartum women.
 Last year, the DEA reported that drug dealers are coloring meth crystals and giving them names like "Strawberry Quick." The crystals resemble "pop rocks" and other forms of candy. One goal of dealers is to try to lure in young customers "by making meth seem less dangerous." Hillary will sternly punish any dealer or trafficker of meth that colors, packages, or otherwise alters the drug to appeal to young people.
 Over the last three years, 
the 
Justice Department has chosen to settle with more than 50 companies suspected of wrongdoing rather than press for a conviction. 
 describes this as a "major shift in policy." Under so-called deferred prosecution agreements, DOJ appoints an outside monitor to impose agreed-upon reforms at the company and the government collects fines. But the companies in question do not plead guilty and the charges against them are ultimately dismissed. The Bush administration has entered into agreements with companies ranging from American Express to KPMG to Merrill Lynch, dealing with crimes ranging from export control violations to Medicare fraud to environmental violations. Reliance on deferred prosecution agreements can weaken deterrence by leading companies to believe they can just cut a deal and make the criminal charges go away. And it suggests that the current administration is seeking to shelter wealthy and powerful entities from criminal prosecution. Hillary will direct her Attorney General to report to her on this practice, reduce its use, and increase the number of serious and meaningful prosecutions of corporate criminals. 
 The cost of Senator Clinton's crime agenda is approximately $4 billion in new investments per year. This cost will be financed without increasing the deficit by allocating a portion of the savings from Senator Clinton's 
. This commission will identify unnecessary and outdated corporate subsidies for elimination and present its recommendations in full to Congress for an up-or-down vote - without amendments. [American Dream Initiative, 2005.] This approach will ensure that special interests cannot interfere to protect their own subsidies.