"Today, the full House is scheduled to consider bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. During the President and Mrs. Bush's trip to Africa in February, we saw firsthand this program's positive impact on people's lives across Africa. This bill retains the important policy principles that have made PEPFAR such a success, and we strongly urge Members to support its passage. We commend the House for taking this critical step in the reauthorization process and encourage Congress to send a bill to the President's desk so that America can continue this incredibly successful program."


 In 2003, President Bush launched the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), committing $15 billion over five years to combat global HIV/AIDS – the largest international health initiative in history to fight a single disease. In 2007, the President requested that Congress double our original funding commitment for this successful program to $30 billion over five years.
 The legislation before Congress calls for supporting treatment of three million individuals with HIV/AIDS, prevention of 12 million new infections, and care for 12 million individuals – including five million orphans and vulnerable children.
 The legislation before Congress will restore meaningful funding for AB programs and maintain the core principle of AB as part of an effective prevention approach.
 Prostitution and sex trafficking are abusive and dehumanizing to women, and they fuel the spread of HIV. This legislation preserves the current law requiring that organizations receiving U.S. Government money:
 The legislation's strengthened conscience clause is critical to ensuring continued participation by faith- and community-based partners, which are uniquely positioned to promote HIV/AIDS stigma reduction and prevention messages, as well as to provide counseling and testing, home care, clinical services, and other interventions. The bill ensures that these organizations will not be required to participate in or refer to any program or activity to which they have a religious or moral objection and ensures that they will not be discriminated against in procurement for refusing to do so.


 The U.S. made the Fund's founding contribution and has pledged over $3.5 billion and contributed approximately $2.5 billion to date – far more than any other nation.
 PEPFAR has also:
 (Editorial, "Married to HIV," 
, 2/22/08)
 "President Bush saved the lives of thousands when he launched PEPFAR. Congress can save millions more by reauthorizing its successor." (Editorial, "Modern Medicine," 
, 3/24/08)
 (Editorial, "Helping Africa; Bush Visit Will Highlight America's Successes," 
, 2/16/08)
 (Scott Baldauf and Jina Moore, "Bush Sees Results Of His AIDS Plan In Africa," 
, 2/20/08)
# # #