In Pittsburgh today, Hillary Clinton announced a groundbreaking policy initiative that would eliminate tax incentives for companies that outsource jobs and use the savings to encourage U.S. companies to create – or "insource" – jobs here in the United States. Her insourcing agenda provides $7 billion per year in new tax benefits and investments to help companies create high-paying, high-quality jobs here in the U.S. and to compete in the global economy. Hillary made the announcement at an economic summit hosted by the campaign focused on "Jobs For the 21st Century." The event also marked the end of Hillary's six-day Solutions For The American Economy Tour.
Her insourcing plan would enact the largest expansion of tax benefits for research and job growth; create at least 15 new "Innovation and Research Clusters" across the country, launch a new "Insourcing Markets Tax Credit" to spur business investment communities facing global competition, and catalyze the 21st Century manufacturing sector with several bold new programs, including the "Made Green In America" Fund, which would provide $500 million annually in investments to encourage the creation of high-wage jobs in clean energy manufacturing technologies.
"We reward companies like Exxon-Mobil who park $56 billion in profits overseas because they don't have to pay a dime in U.S. taxes on those profits. And we're using your tax dollars to reward companies that ship your jobs overseas," said Clinton. "My insourcing agenda is based on a different approach. I believe our government should get out of the business of rewarding companies for shipping jobs overseas, and get back into the business of rewarding companies that create good, high-wage jobs – with good benefits – right here in America."
Hillary discussed the details of her proposal during her campaign's "Jobs For The 21st Century" summit, which took place at the local International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Conference Center & Training Facility.
Clinton started her day touring the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, a biotechnology initiative and non-profit organization that provides resources and tools to entrepreneurial life sciences enterprises to advance their research and patient care. She then came to the IBEW center and toured the training facility before hosting two panels about the emerging economy and job growth.
The first panel focused on how research and technology will be a primary driver for jobs of the future. During the first panel dicussion, Hillary was joined by John Manzetti, President and CEO of Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse; Don Smith, Vice President of Economic Development for Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh; and Christine Pambianchi, Senior Vice President, Corning, Inc.
During the next panel, a second group of local and national experts discussed workforce redevelopment and green jobs. Panelists joining Hillary included, Dave Malone, Chair of the Pennsylvania Workforce Investment Board; Marge Krueger, Administrative Director to the Vice President, Communications Workers of America International; Bill Cagney, Business Manager for Operating Engineers Local 95; and Dr. Nabil Nasr from the Center for Integrated Manufacturing Studies.
To maintain our competitive edge in the global economy, Senator Clinton has laid out a comprehensive economic plan to lower healthcare costs, restore fiscal discipline, rebuild our infrastructure and create at least five million green collar green jobs. Today, she announced a new set of initiatives to spur innovation and reward companies that are creating good, high-paying jobs in the United States:
 Senator Clinton will eliminate the tax incentives and lax enforcement that make it easier to ship jobs and capital overseas:
 If the US wants to remain as the global leader for cutting edge research, innovation and high-wage job growth, we must update our tools for rewarding these activities. The R&D tax credit has proved to be a successful, cost-effective tool to increase investment in research jobs in the United States and to make the U.S. a more attractive venue for global R&D. [Atkinson, 2007]. In fact, every dollar spent on the credit leverages more than $2.00 in private research spending. [Gupta, Hwang, and Schmidt, 2006]. 
Two decades ago, the U.S. offered the most generous R&D tax benefits in the world. Today, we have fallen to 17th – below even Mexico. At a time of increased global competition and increasing pressure on U.S. wages and jobs, this decline provides further incentive for companies to look overseas when making investment decisions. We need to update this tax credit to respond to the needs of our 21st century economy. Hillary Clinton has already called for making the existing credit permanent to remove uncertainty for U.S. businesses. Today, she proposed the largest expansion in the R&D tax credit in a generation. She will:
 "Clusters" or "innovation hot spots" are hubs of economic activity that exhibit superior growth rates of investment, productivity, and wage gains for local communities. [Center for American Progress, 2007]. While most people are familiar with Silicon Valley in California, clusters are powerful drivers of regional economies in other places too, such as Central Florida's modeling and simulation cluster and Pittsburgh's ICT (information and communications technology) hub. The ICT hub is a tremendous source of innovation and collaboration, involving the work of Penn State University's Electro-Optics Center, Carnegie Mellon's Software Engineering Institute, a non-profit Technology Collaborative, and 1,500 ICT companies.
Senator Clinton believes we should be aggressively supporting regional clusters that leverage local assets, drive economic growth and create high-wage jobs. In addition to offering her new 40% credit for basic research, Senator Clinton will launch a new program of tax exempt bonds for states and local governments to build research parks. And she will catalyze the creation of at least 15 major research clusters during her first term:
 Building off the success of the New Markets Tax Credit Program, Senator Clinton will launch a new public/private partnership to bring new investment and jobs to communities that are vulnerable to global competition, and provide them with the tools to become leaders in our economy. While the NMTC has played a crucial role in bringing investment and job growth to poor and underserved areas, many communities impacted by globalization have acute needs: requiring large and fast-acting infusions of capital to diversify and modernize in the wake of job losses and unemployment.
In addition to reauthorizing the NMTC, Senator Clinton will create a new $5 billion 
 dedicated to communities impacted by global competition, trade and technological change. The Secretary of Treasury – in consultation with the Secretary of Labor and Commerce – will determine eligible trade-impacted communities, using relevant economic data and workforce data. Given the goals of modernization and economic diversification in these areas, Treasury will require the community development groups selected to solicit private IMTC investors to put particular emphasis on projects that bring in new industries and companies into these communities as well as create high-quality long term employment. Eligibility for IMTCs will also be expanded to Small Business Investment Corporations (SBICs) that have expertise in trade-impacted industries, such as manufacturing. SBICs have invested more than $4.3 billion in small manufacturing companies during the past decade, even during a challenging time for the industry.
 Hillary believes that we cannot remain a great country with a strong economy without a strong, vibrant manufacturing sector. Today, she announced three new initiatives to help catalyze manufacturing research and ensure that the U.S. becomes a leader in clean energy manufacturing.
 As President, Senator Clinton will overhaul our international tax system to remove incentives for companies to locate jobs and capital overseas and to crack down on abusive offshore tax havens.