At the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO Convention in Philadelphia, Hillary Clinton announced a plan to create three million new jobs through increased investments in the nation's infrastructure. Hillary would create these jobs over 10 years by combining emergency initiatives like fixing the immediate safety risks of the I-95 bridge in Philadelphia along with long-term investments to create a greener, sleeker 21st century highway and transit system.
"President Bush has stood by and watched as we've lost 3 million manufacturing jobs. And he's done nothing about the loopholes in our tax code that actually encourage companies to ship jobs overseas," said Clinton. "It's time for a different approach. I'll fight for every single job in America – and create millions of new, high paying jobs that can't be outsourced. We're trying to run today's economy on yesterday's infrastructure – and we're jeopardizing tomorrow's prosperity. So I will rebuild America – by rebuilding, repairing and modernizing our infrastructure."
In addition to her discussing her infrastructure jobs plan, Clinton reinforced her positions on promoting strong unions and fair trade. Hillary also noted that her Republican opponent in the general election does not have a plan to solve the challenges that face the American economy.
"John McCain admits he doesn't understand the economy – and unfortunately he's proving it in this campaign. He looked at the housing crisis, and he blamed consumers. And his plan for the economy is to extend George Bush's tax cuts for billionaires and give a new $100 billion corporate tax cut," said Clinton. "But don't take my word for it. Even Republican Senator Mel Martinez gave Senator McCain's economic plan an 'incomplete.' He said: 'where I think he fell short...is the fact that we need to do some things that can help families, that can help people.'"
Hillary started her day with a tour of the Wm. J. Donovan Company, a local sheet metal products and systems firm. It has been in the business of designing, fabricating, and installing products for the HVAC and related industries for eighty-five years. Hillary was led on the tour by President Edmund Bransfield, Vice President Thomas DeMusis and Shop Foreman Henry Hilt.
Throughout Hillary's fifth day of her "Solutions For The American Economy" Tour, she will discuss the type of president that American workers and families need. At a time when the economy is sliding into recession, Hillary noted that the nation needs a president who will fight to help create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S., support unions, stand up to special interests, and enforce trade laws. Over the past three months, the economy lost more than 140,000 private sector jobs. Pennsylvania lost 13,000 manufacturing jobs in the past year; and nearly one-in-four manufacturing jobs since January 2001. At the same time, corporations have seen their profits grow at their fastest rate of any economic expansion on record. And unlike past expansions, these record profits have not been shared. The typical Pennsylvania household's income has remained virtually flat since 2000 – while health care costs have doubled, college tuition rates have increased by 66 percent, and gas prices have tripled to nearly $3.30 a gallon.
Hillary believes that we need to restore balance to our economy by putting the needs of working families first.
 Hillary's Rebuild America plan and National Infrastructure will help create 3 million new jobs over the next decade. [Calculation based in part on a Federal Highway Administration study by Thomas F. Keane, "The Economic Importance of the National Highway System," adjusted for inflation.] These will be high-wage jobs with good benefits, including: general construction; engineering, design, architecture, and other specialty work; manufacturing and supply of building materials; and research, development, and production of new green infrastructure technologies.
Hillary also discussed her plans to promote strong unions and fair trade:
Implement a trade "timeout" to formulate a genuinely pro-worker and pro-American trade policy.