 Hillary outlined her plans yesterday to provide tax relief to American families that could surpass $100 billion annually. She also called for immediate action to strengthen the regulation of financial markets and said the Bush administration's proposal "comes late and falls short."
 Hillary hosted a roundtable discussion with middle class voters in Harrisburg, PA and held a "Solutions for the Pennsylvania Economy" Rally in Fairless Hills, PA. One supporter's reaction: "We love her so much. She has the experience and the heart that will put our country back to where it needs to be." Read more. 
 In a new poll, Hillary builds an impressive 2 to 1 lead over Sen. Obama among Democratic voters in the Bluegrass State, garnering support from 58 percent of those interviewed. View Results.
 An editorial in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette argues "the Clinton-Obama race still has a way to run" – "Mrs. Clinton says she will fight on - and she's right to do so...Simply put, this fight isn't over." Read more.
 Hillary reinforced her commitment to ensuring that the votes of remaining states count. She told a TV station from Billings, MT: "My take on it is a lot of Senator Obama's supporters want to end this race because they don't want people to keep voting...That's just the opposite of what I believe. We want people to vote. I want the people of Montana to vote, don't you?" Read more.
 Today's NYT features an op-ed written by former White House staff members traveling with Hillary to Bosnia in 1996: "The video of Hillary's arrival on the tarmac in Bosnia may be great theater and easy fodder for commentators, but it shouldn't be allowed to obscure what else was happening on this important trip when the cameras weren't rolling." Read more.
 Hillary continues her swing through the Keystone State with a tour of MJ Donovan Company in Philadelphia, and hosts "Solutions for the American Economy" events in Philadelphia, Wilkes-Barre, and Erie.
 Dr. Maya Angelou describes why she continues to stand alongside Hillary. "Hillary Clinton intends to help our country to what it can become. She means to rise. She means to help our country rise. Don't give up on her, ever." 
 Hillary will wrap up her Economic Tour of Pennsylvania with an economic summit in Pittsburgh on Wednesday.
 Sen. Obama on the primary: "good thing" or "Bataan death march"? Read more.