 The HOPE NOW Alliance hotline (888-995-HOPE) helps connect struggling homeowners with mortgage counselors who work on possible solutions. Novadebt, a HOPE NOW Alliance member, is one of the counseling centers that homeowners are directed to when they call the HOPE hotline. HOPE NOW has announced that since July more than one million struggling homeowners received a work-out – either a loan modification or a repayment plan that helped them avoid foreclosure.
 This bill would increase access to FHA-insured loans by lowering downpayment requirements, allowing the FHA to insure bigger mortgages in high-cost States, and expanding FHA's authority to price insurance fairly, with risk based premiums.
 HUD has funded $242 million in housing counseling grants to national, State and local agencies since 2001, reaching more than 1.6 million households last year.
 Nearly 200 events have been attended by approximately 29,000 people.
 Since 
 was announced, FHA has helped more than 130,000 families stay in their homes by refinancing about $19 billion worth of mortgages. By the year's end, this program is expected to have helped nearly 300,000 homeowners in all.
 These standards help homeowners in one of three ways: refinancing into a new mortgage; moving homeowners into an 
insured
loan; or freezing their current interest rates for five years.
 This creates a three-year window for homeowners to refinance and pay no Federal taxes on any debt forgiveness.
 President Bush recognized the initial signs of slowdown and acted decisively.
 to better educate Americans about matters pertaining to their finances and their future.
HUD developed and distributed four million copies of a bilingual "Home Economics" brochure that detail five steps Americans should take to become financially literate and own a home they can afford.
 Project Lifeline targets seriously delinquent homeowners who are at greatest risk of losing their homes.
 This package includes a payment of up to $600 for individuals – $1,200 for married couples filing jointly - and a $300 per child payment for children younger than 17. It also encourages businesses to expand and add workers. Payments will begin the first week of May.
 This reform requires all mortgage terms and settlement charges to be combined and displayed in a standard summary, and is expected to save homebuyers nearly $500 to $700 in closing costs, while reducing the likelihood of consumers taking on loans they cannot afford.
 This was done in an effort to assist Americans who are eligible for the economic stimulus payment but who normally are not required to file an income tax return in preparing the simple Form 1040A.
 A modernized FHA would allow for more flexible downpayment requirements and expand FHA's authority to price insurance fairly with risk based premiums.
 Under current law, tax-exempt bonds are only for first-time homebuyers and cannot be issued for refinancing.
 The President has called on Congress to pass legislation that strengthens the independent regulator of the GSEs and ensures their focus on the housing mission.
 If Congress allows the President's tax relief to expire, every income tax payer will face a rate increase.
For a single mom with two children and $30,000 in earnings, taxes would go up by 67 percent.
An elderly couple with $40,000 in income would see their taxes go up by 156 percent.
Twenty-seven million small business owners would see taxes increase by nearly 20 percent – or about $4,000 on average.
 These trade agreements would level the playing field for American workers, farmers, and ranchers. Exports accounted for 40 percent of our economic growth last year and 12 percent of our GDP.