Hillary Clinton kicked off the second day of her Solutions For The American Economy Tour in Mishakawa, Indiana hosting a town hall meeting on the economy. During the tour, Clinton is discussing her solutions to ensure shared prosperity in these tough economic times. Hillary started the tour in North Carolina yesterday and will continue through Indiana, ending with a three-day swing through Pennsylvania. Throughout the tour, she will highlight ways that state and local leaders have found solutions to economic challenges.
"Here in Indiana, you've got some of the hardest workers in the world, thriving community colleges and universities training the next generation of workers, and factories and farms that keep this nation going," said Clinton. "When I look at this state, I don't see a rust belt. I see the potential to build a 21st century manufacturing belt, an innovation belt – an opportunity belt."
During the town hall she praised the work of Senator Evan Bayh who has been a strong advocate for keeping defense manufacturing jobs in the U.S., pushed the Pentagon to buy defense materials made in America, and provided more funding for the up-armored humvees that keep the troops safe. At the Mishawaka town hall, Clinton was joined by two local residents, Bruce Schweizer and Patty Strevinger. Bruce has worked at AM General, a local military humvee plant, for 33 years and is a member of United Auto Workers (UAW). Through Senator Bayh's work, he has helped men and women like Bruce keep their jobs and protect our troops. In January, Patty lost her job and as a result, her family's medical coverage. She and her family are now struggling with lost jobs, lost health care coverage, and the effects of today's housing crisis.
"I think it's time Patty and Bruce had a President who stood up for them," said Clinton. "A President who will work as a partner with Senator Bayh to turn this economy around and who's ready on day one to be Commander-in-Chief of our economy."
Hillary will continue campaigning in Indiana with another economic town hall in Hammond and then will host a roundtable discussion at Sara's Family Restaurant in Fort Wayne with several workers, including four workers from the local General Motors plant.
With our economy sliding into recession, American workers and families need a president who will enforce out trade laws, stand up to special interests and fight to help create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Over the past three months, our economy lost more than 140,000 private sector jobs. Indiana lost 9,000 manufacturing jobs in the past year; and nearly one-in-seven manufacturing jobs since January 2001. At the same time, corporations have seen their profits grow at their fastest rate of any economic expansion on record. And unlike past expansions, these record profits have not been shared. The typical Indiana household lost $2400 in income between 2000 and 2006 – 
Hillary believes that we need to restore balance to our economy by getting tough with our trading partners and putting the needs of working families first. Today, she highlighted her plan to help working families secure good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. that cannot be outsourced.
Her plan includes: