 The Federal Government has taken action to address economic uncertainty in the short term, but in the longer term, small businesses and workers still face uncertainty about our economic future. While some of these sources of uncertainty are beyond anyone's control, there are some issues that are entirely within our power to resolve. The President laid out steps Congress can also take – especially in the areas of tax and trade – to help our Nation's small businesses continue to grow.
 Unfortunately, leaders on Capitol Hill seem to have put their special interests ahead of the economic and strategic interests of our Nation. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently changed the previously agreed to House rules so that she can put off a vote on Colombia. If this decision stands, it will kill the agreement and likely hurt American small business owners and workers the most.
 Over the past seven years, the President has signed more than $1.3 trillion worth of tax relief into law. Unless Congress acts, this tax relief will expire at the end of 2010 - including the 10 percent individual income tax bracket, reductions in the marriage penalty, and reduced rates on regular income, capital gains, and dividends. As a consequence, 116 million taxpayers would see their taxes go up by $1,800 on average and our economy would suffer.
 This includes legislation to modernize the Federal Housing Administration, reform the regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and allow State housing agencies to issue tax-free bonds to refinance subprime loans.
 Congress should create a standard deduction for health insurance so that all Americans have access to the tax advantage currently reserved for those who receive health care from their employer.
 The President will continue working with leaders in both parties on a bill that he can sign into law to improve and reauthorize Trade Adjustment Assistance. Until Congress reauthorizes the No Child Left Behind Act, the Administration will use its administrative authority to strengthen and improve the law so that a new generation has the skills they need to compete and succeed.
 Congress is considering "card check" legislation that would strip workers of their fundamental right of a secret ballot when voting on whether to form a union or remain unaffiliated. The bill would expose workers to intimidation, and violates the principles of our democracy. The President will veto this bill if it reaches his desk.
 It will take some time for these changes to be reflected in our overall economy – the President's economic advisors and many outside experts believe that much of the impact of the stimulus will be felt starting in the third quarter, which begins in July. The economic growth package will boost the buying power of American consumers by providing tax rebates to more than 130 million American households. These rebates will return up to $600 of hard-earned money for individuals, $1,200 for married couples, and $300 per child. When the rebates start to go out in a couple of weeks, a family of four could receive a tax rebate of $1,800.