 A strong executive with an outstanding track record in the private sector and at the Small Business Administration (SBA), Administrator Preston has a deep financial and capital markets background, and he understands the important role that the housing market plays in the broader economy. President Bush is confident that Administrator Preston is a reformer who will act aggressively to help struggling Americans obtain affordable mortgages and keep their homes, as well as help ensure that all Americans have access to safe, decent, affordable housing.
 There, he spearheaded a reform agenda to make the agency more accountable, effective, and responsive. As a result, families received the disaster assistance they needed in a timely, compassionate manner; lenders have products that are easier to use; and small businesses have broad access to the Federal contracts and educational resources they need to grow and succeed. Under Administrator Preston's leadership, agency efficiency has improved and America's small-business community has a trusted friend and partner.
 He understands the world of commerce and free enterprise from every angle.
 He previously served as the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer.
 Earlier in his career, he was a Senior Vice President in Investment Banking at Lehman Brothers.
 "Preston visited field offices and ramped up efforts to communicate with agency employees about the mission of the SBA – helping Americans start and build businesses – and how that related to their specific jobs. He brought in 1,400 employees, about half the agency's staff, for a week of training." (Stephen Barr, "After Rock-Bottom Rating, SBA Works To Boost Morale," 
, 1/14/07)
 "At the same time, he has had invaluable experience in the credit and financing arenas, especially as he worked to meet the needs of his small-business customers. His reputation for customer service excellence will be welcomed by SBA's constituents." (Todd Stotlemeyer, "NFIB Praises Steve Preston's Appointment As SBA Administrator," Press Release, 4/26/06)
 "We look forward to working with him as a valuable partner in the important initiative." ("Gulf Coast Minority Business Owners Welcome New SBA Administrator," 
, 7/19/06)
 (Kent Hoover, "U.S. House Restores Funds For Microloan Program," 
 [OH] 
, 7/10/06)