 This new goal marks a major step forward in America's ongoing efforts to address climate change. If we fully implement our strong new laws, adhere to the principles the President outlined, and adopt appropriate incentives, we will put the United States on an ambitious new track for greenhouse gas reductions. The growth in emissions will slow over the next decade, stop by 2025, and begin to reverse thereafter, so long as technology continues to advance. Taken together, these landmark actions will prevent billions of metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere. The President's announcement:
 Like many other countries, America's national plan will be a comprehensive blend of market incentives and regulations to reduce emissions by encouraging clean and efficient energy technologies. The Administration is willing to include this plan in an international agreement, so long as all major economies are prepared to include their plans in such an agreement. We recognize that different nations will design different strategies, with goals and policies that reflect their unique energy resources and economic circumstances.
 Decisions with such far-reaching impact should not be left to unelected regulators and judges, but should be debated openly and made by the elected representatives of the people they affect.
 The Clean Air Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the National Environmental Policy Act were never meant to regulate global climate change. If these laws are stretched beyond their original intent, they could override the programs Congress has recently adopted, and force the government to regulate increasingly smaller users and producers of energy – from schools and stores to hospitals and apartment buildings.
 Bad legislation would impose tremendous costs on our economy and American families without accomplishing the important climate change goals we share.
 The right way is to set realistic goals for reducing emissions consistent with advances in technology, while increasing our energy security and ensuring that our economy can continue to prosper and grow.
 The right way is to adopt policies that spur investment in the new technologies needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions more cost-effectively in the long term without placing unreasonable burdens on American consumers and workers in the short term.
 The right way is to promote more emission-free nuclear power and encourage the investments necessary to produce electricity from coal without releasing carbon into the air.
 The right way is to ensure that all major economies are bound to take action and to work cooperatively with our partners for a fair and effective international climate agreement.
 The right way is to work to make advanced technology affordable and available in the developing world, by lowering trade barriers, creating a global free market for clean energy technologies, and enhancing international cooperation and technology investment.
 The next step in the Major Economies Process is a meeting this week in Paris, where representatives of all participating nations will lay the groundwork for a leaders' meeting in conjunction with the G-8 summit in July.
 To be effective, this approach will require commitments by all major economies to slow, stop, and eventually reverse the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. To be economically sustainable, this approach must foster the economic growth necessary to pay for investments in new technology and to raise living standards. The U.S. must help countries in the developing world gain access to the technologies and financing that will enable them to take a lower carbon path to economic growth.
 Today, we have a different incentive for different technologies – from nuclear power, to clean coal, to wind, and solar energy. What we need to do is consolidate them into a single, expanded program with the following features:
1. The incentive should be carbon-weighted to make lower emission power sources less expensive relative to higher emissions sources, and it should take into account our Nation's energy security needs.
2. The incentive should be technology-neutral because the government should not be picking winners and losers in this emerging market.
3. The incentive should be long-lasting – it should provide a positive and reliable market signal not only for the investment in a technology, but also for the investments in domestic manufacturing capacity and infrastructure that will help lower costs and increase availability.
 The Administration:
 Along with the private sector, the U.S. has invested billions of dollars more to research, develop, and help commercially deploy renewable fuels, hydrogen fuel cells, and advanced batteries, and other technologies to enable a new generation of vehicles and more reliable renewable power systems. In 2009 alone, the Government and private sector plan to dedicate nearly $1 billion to clean coal research and development. Incentives for power production from wind and solar energy have helped to more than quadruple its use.