The Montana for Hillary campaign today announced its statewide steering committee made up of legislators, community leaders and democratic activists from across the Big Sky State who will mobilize grassroots support for Hillary leading up to Montana's June 3 presidential primary.
"I am honored to be a member of Senator Clinton's Steering Committee in Montana, said State Senator Carol Juneau. "Hillary has demonstrated a strong commitment in being a voice for many Americans who have been forgotten the last seven years and she has a definite plan for leading our country out of the crisis it is in today. I am proud to be an American Indian woman who is helping to elect the first woman president of this United States. That is the type of change I want."
"Senator Clinton understands and values all Montanans throughout Big Sky Country, especially our first citizens," said State Representative Shannon Augare. "As President, she will explore the possibilities that exist in building vibrant, economically healthy communities across rural-America. She has my complete faith and confidence and I am honored to serve on her statewide steering committee."
"I am pleased to be among the many Montanans supporting Senator Clinton," said State Senate Majority Leader Carol Williams. "The enthusiastic welcome she received last weekend proves Senator Clinton's message of real solutions resonates with Montana voters. Montana's facing real challenges and Sen. Clinton has real plans to tackle them. Both a lifetime spent making positive changes in the lives of others and a willingness to listen to our concerns makes her the best candidate to help us fix an unequal health care system, rebuild the broken economy, and finally end the war in Iraq."
"I am honored to have such widespread support across the Big Sky State," said Senator Clinton. "Together we will work hard to share our message of real change with voters throughout Montana."
Montana for Hillary will be making additional announcements about staff, offices and endorsements in the coming days.