Hillary has laid out an aggressive plan to address the twin challenges of global warming and our reliance on foreign oil. Setting ambitious targets, the plan will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050 to avoid the worst effects of global warming, and cut foreign oil imports by two-thirds from 2030 projected levels, more than 10 million barrels per day. Her plan focuses on improving energy efficiency, moving to clean, renewable sources of energy and developing green manufacturing. By transitioning from a carbon-based economy to a green, energy efficient economy, Hillary's plan will help unleash a wave of private sector innovation and create at least 5 million new green collar jobs over the next decade.
Oregon is already a leader in renewable energy and energy efficiency. As President, Hillary will be a strong partner with Oregon, investing $150 billion in research, development, and deployment of clean energy over the next decade, including $50 billion through a Strategic Energy Fund paid for with a windfall profits tax on large oil companies. Oregon will directly benefit from Hillary's Plan, with:
Hillary's plan includes:
Oregon is one of the fastest-growing areas in the country for wind power. According to the American Wind Energy Association, Oregon added nearly 500 megawatts of wind power capacity in 2007. Oregon now ranks fourth in the country in terms of wind generation as a percentage of electricity generation. Yet while states like Oregon lead, the federal government lags behind. Hillary will restore leadership by establishing a national target of producing 25% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2025. In addition, Hillary will:
Oregon is a leader in green buildings and energy efficiency; its per capita carbon footprint is among the five lowest nationwide, and Oregon has more certified green buildings per capita than any other state. As President, Hillary will provide the resources and tools to help Oregon accelerate this progress by:
Portland's public transportation system is a comprehensive and award-winning system that has increased ridership by 65% since 1990. Hillary's agenda to green our transportation infrastructure will help support Oregon's public transit system. These steps will be combined with her aggressive proposals to improve vehicle fuel economy to reduce oil consumption, save consumers money and reduce global warming pollution. As President, Hillary will:
Hillary believes that we cannot remain a great country with a strong economy without a strong, vibrant manufacturing sector. But the failure of the Bush Administration to lead on clean energy has enabled other countries to move ahead in clean energy development and manufacturing. To help catalyze investment in clean energy research and manufacturing and restore U.S. leadership, Hillary will establish: