THE PRESIDENT said:
"The estimates which I gave in my recent message to Congress as to the probable size of the deficit will depend, of course, upon how far the Congress adopts economies which I have recommended. The budget calls for $850 million reduction in appropriations for the next fiscal year, which would result in a reduction of about $530 million of expenditures, the difference being due to old continuing appropriations and commitments in respect to them.
"I stated the other day that the five appropriation bills so far dealt with by the House or committees of the House showed an actual increase of about $35 million instead of a decrease. The details are given in the attached statements. However, the largest part of the economies proposed in the budget have yet to be dealt with.
"I regret, of course, that the consolidation of 58 bureaus and commissions into a few divisions which I had directed by Executive Orders [5959-5969], has been nullified by the action of the House of Representatives [H. Res. 334]. There was apparently no examination of the merits of the different Executive orders by the House or the House committees and certainly no hearings of any consequence were undertaken. While it is my conviction that all these orders would be accepted, if accurately investigated, yet it is a certainty that if they were investigated at all, the majority of them would have been passed.
"The Joint Committee on Reorganization of the Government, created in December 1920 and comprising representatives of the Executive together with members of both parties in the House and Senate, agreed upon the same fundamentals as were represented in my Executive orders.
"There is no question that the consolidations would have brought about great economies. No one wishes to estimate these economies until it is possible to determine accurately how many offices can be abolished, how much can be saved by the more advantageous purchase of supplies and the greater coordination of work. But it is a certainty that great economies would have been made if the program had been carried out. It would have been a contribution to lessening taxation in the forthcoming fiscal year."