: "After final election results became available... Clinton... picked up delegates... from the New York primary and the Colorado caucuses, both of which were held Feb. 5... Clinton gained four delegates in Colorado and one delegate in New York." Read more.
 The path to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue goes through Pennsylvania. No Democrat has won the presidency without winning Pennsylvania since 1948. No candidate has won the Democratic nomination without winning Pennsylvania since 1972.
: More than thirty former admirals and generals have endorsed Hillary. Listen.
: Hillary supports seating delegates from Florida and Michigan at the Democratic convention. "The nearly two and a half million Americans in those two states who participated in the primary elections are in danger of being excluded from our democratic process... In my view there are two options: Honor the results or hold new primary elections."
: "Obama, who lost to Clinton in Ohio... outspent Clinton by nearly two to one."
: Hillary has an agenda that expands opportunity for Latinos and ensures una vida mejor para todos. Read more.
: In Erie, Pennsylvania, President Bill Clinton spoke to "a cheering, mostly adoring crowd estimated at 1,400... [A]fter his speech... Clinton... posed for pictures, signed autographs, shook hands and accepted hugs." ... In Johnstown, "More than 1,600 people lined up and waited in near freezing temperatures to see former President Clinton... [A] large number of young people lined up to see the speech."
: Chelsea met with students in Wilkes-Barre, Annville, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. At Wilkes University, student government president Matthew Brown said: "I was not for Hillary until I heard Chelsea... She is a great advocate and a great supporter of her mother." At Lebanon Valley College, Samantha Gatewood said: "'I was undecided at first, but now I made up my mind.'"  Gatewood "really likes Clinton's proposals to increase student loan availability." At Point Park University, Nikitta Sanders "said she was undecided before hearing Ms. Clinton, but is now leaning toward her mother."
: In the last two weeks, Sen. Obama has lost ground among men, women, Democrats, independents, Republicans, and voters making up their minds in the last three days before the election. Read more.