 The Pension and Family Security Plan will help those who are currently hurting the most including workers, homeowners and seniors. 
 The American Homeownership Resurgence Plan uses $300 billion of the $700 billion package recently passed by Congress to keep Americans in their homes, stop declining housing values and stabilize financial markets. Learn more about the Plan here: 
 
 Learn more about the Plan here: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Seniors have seen the financial markets undertake a daily assault on their life savings in recent weeks. Families are being forced to sell at a loss to meet their bills. Public employees, unions, and every other pension fund in America will benefit from a stronger market. The government should take steps to meet these needs. 
 This policy will apply to the first $50,000 withdrawn from these accounts each year and will affect the accounts of nearly 
 over the age of 60, permitting them to devote more of their income to retirement needs. 
 Under current law, Americans with tax-preferred IRA and 401(k) accounts must begin to sell off their equities when they reach age 70.5 - unless they continue to work, in which case they must sell when they retire. Forcing seniors to sell at this time guarantees less to live on during retirement and could affect over four million seniors. John McCain believes this should be immediately waived. 
 
 
 John McCain believes that we should increase the amount of capital losses which can be used in tax years 2008 and 2009 to offset ordinary income from $3,000 to $15,000. 
 John McCain proposes a reduction in the maximum tax rate on long term capital gains to 7.5 percent in 2009 and 2010. 
 
 
 
 John McCain will direct his Treasury Secretary to implement an American Homeownership Resurgence Plan (McCain Resurgence Plan) to keep families in their homes, avoid foreclosures, save failing neighborhoods, stabilize the housing market and attack the roots of our financial crisis. 
 It is important that those families who have worked hard enough to finance homeownership not have that dream crushed under the weight of the wrong mortgage. The existing debts are too large compared to the value of housing. For those that cannot make payments, mortgages must be re-structured to put losses on the books and put homeowners in manageable mortgages. 
 
 An underwater mortgage occurs when a homeowner owes more money than the market value of a home. 
 By purchasing the existing, failing mortgages the McCain resurgence plan will eliminate uncertainty over defaults, support the value of mortgage-backed derivatives and alleviate risks that are freezing financial markets. 
 The new mortgage would be an FHA-guaranteed fixed-rate mortgage at terms manageable for the homeowner. 
An American buys a house that is his or her primary residence for $250,000 with a conservative, 20 percent downpayment ($50,000 down).
His or her community property values fall by 30 percent, leaving him or her with a home worth $175,000 and a mortgage still worth $200,000.
Under the McCain Plan, their mortgage would be retired, and they would receive a new, FHA guaranteed, 30-year fixed mortgage, at a low interest rate that reflects historical norms and the current market value of his home. 
 The purchase of mortgages would relieve homeowners of "negative equity" in some homes. By stabilizing mortgages it will likely be possible to avoid some purposes previously assumed needed in that bill. 
 
 
 According to the latest statistics, over 3.6 million Americans are currently receiving unemployment benefits. John McCain recognizes that at a time when families are hurting, and the prospects of future job losses increase -- we should stop taxing unemployment insurance benefits for 2008 and 2009. 
 John McCain will eliminate this burden -- immediately increasing received benefits by nearly 10 percent on average. 
 This provides targeted relief, at the lowest cost to the taxpayer.