 Over the past eight years, President Bush has charted a new era in standards for development aid, lifting people from poverty, fighting disease, and increasing educational opportunities.
 Not only has his Administration provided more foreign assistance than any other in the past half century, it has charted a new era in development, predicating American aid on results and accountability. Under the President's leadership, we are now:
 Through this program, the United States invests in developing nations that fight corruption, govern justly, support opening markets to trade and investment, and invest in the health and education of their people. By doing so, we encourage developing nations to make tough economic, political, and social reforms, and we encourage leaders to respect their citizens, uphold human dignity, and earn the trust of their people. People in the developing world have the capacity to improve their own lives – and they will rise to meet high expectations.
 Since 2002, the United States has provided more than $16 billion in food assistance, helping ensure that tens of millions of people around the world do not go hungry. Last year, we dedicated nearly $1 billion to improving sanitation and water supplies in developing nations. In response to the current global food crisis, we have committed $5.5 billion to address global hunger over the next two years. We are also working to help find long-term solutions to global hunger with efforts such as distributing better seeds that will boost yields, investing in research that will make crops like rice and wheat more resistant to drought and pests, and calling on other nations to open their markets to crops grown with biotechnology.
 When President Bush took office, we had free trade agreements with only three nations. Today, we have agreements in force with 14 – most of which are with developing countries. In 2005, the President worked with Congress to approve the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement, and trade between participating countries and the United States is up by 30 percent.
 America and our partners are determined to extend the promise of a good education to more people in the developing world. The U.S. Agency for International Development has partnered with local officials to start kindergartens in Jordan, taught hundreds of thousands of children about information technology in Morocco, and built 70 schools for girls in Egypt. Through our Africa Education Initiative, the United States has trained more than 700,000 teachers, distributed more than 10 million textbooks, and provided hundreds of thousands of scholarships to help girls go to school. Last year, President Bush announced a new initiative that will devote $425 million to improving education in Ethiopia, Ghana, Honduras, Liberia, Mali, and Yemen. Working in partnership with Latin American nations, we have helped more than 400,000 poor and disadvantaged children learn to read.
 In Africa, the treatable, preventable disease of malaria kills one child every 30 seconds. In 2005, President Bush launched a five-year, $1.2 billion Malaria Initiative to help cut the number of malaria-related deaths in 15 African nations by half. So far, this initiative has reached 25 million people, and the numbers of people sick or dying from malaria have dropped dramatically in places like Zambia, Ethiopia, Rwanda, and Tanzania.
 He also calls on other members of the G-8 and the United Nations – as well as our fellow contributors to the Global Fund – to follow through on their pledges. The President also urges corporations and foundations that have shared their resources and expertise to continue their generosity and asks faith-based groups to carry on their missions of mercy.