 "But Robert, let me ask you this because as time goes on here, there seemed to be more ties between Barack Obama and Bill Ayers, for example, he wrote the foreword or a blurb at least for Bill Ayers' book. If you don't know somebody very well, do you participate in their book?" 
 "Look, I don't know all the details of this. I know what I read in the newspapers, and I know what I've seen throughout any number of publications that looked at this this weekend."
 The Obama Campaign Claim To Not Know Details Of Ayers' Relationship 
 
 "I want you give you the chance to set the record straight with the Obama campaign is concerned, because they want to know about this. They cite the fact is they served together on this board, the Woods Fund, which was a community group for several years. That Barack Obama chaired this group, the Annenberg Challenge, that Ayers founded. That Barack Obama wrote a blurb for Ayers' book. That they appeared together on several academic panels. That Barack Obama kicked off his political career in Ayers' Chicago home in 1995. These are the things they cite to us saying these two seem awfully chummy, why shouldn't we care?" 
 "Ok, well let me say a couple of things. You already know my point about the McCain campaign purposely trying to distract from the economy because they know they lose when they talk about it. But on the facts, since you asked, as 
 sent an investigative reporter to take a hard look at Barack Obama and Bill Ayers' path have some crossed over the course 15 years or so that Barack has been in Chicago. He did not launch his career from Bill Ayers' home. He did not write a blurb for Bill Ayer's book." 
 "He didn't?" 
 "But instead -- No, he did not."
 The Obama Campaign Claim That Barack Obama Did Not Write Anything About Ayers' Book 
 "Barack Obama State senator ... A Kind and Just Parent: The Children of Juvenile Court by William Ayers (Beacon Press) 'A searing and timely account of the juvenile court system, and the courageous individuals who rescue hope from despair.'" (
, 12/21/97)