 Due to economic events this week, President Bush decided to remain in Washington, D.C. Vice President Cheney attended the conference in his place. The Conference sessions provided hunters and other outdoor recreational enthusiasts from across the United States an opportunity to discuss a forthcoming 10-year Action Plan on recreational hunting and wildlife conservation. Since President Bush took office, the Administration has enhanced and increased wildlife habitats, enlarged wildlife populations and increased opportunities for hunting, and the Administration continues to add to these accomplishments. In August 2007, the President signed Executive Order 13443 to facilitate the expansion and enhancement of hunting opportunities and the management of game species and their habitat.
 Under this Administration, the U.S. Forest Service has partnered with hunting organizations to improve forage and cover for elk and wild turkeys.
 In 2004, President Bush set a goal of restoring, improving, and protecting three million acres of wetlands in five years and has met this goal one year ahead of schedule. The President's new four million-acre goal will build on that success and include a stronger focus on quality as well as quantity.
 President Bush expanded Federal tax incentives to encourage landowners to donate their property for conservation purposes. Through the Conservation Reserve Program, we are helping ranchers and farmers restore grassland habitats on their land.
 Since 2001, President Bush and his Administration have opened up 30 National Wildlife Refuges to hunting. The Administration is working with 40 sportsmen's groups to improve access to hunting and fishing on Federal property. The President has also made significant efforts to assist citizens with planning safe and legal hunting trips by marking access points, improving highway signage for trail heads, and providing electronic maps online.
 President Bush and his Administration are working through Federal programs such as "Kids in the Woods," to teach children about conservation and provide them with hands-on outdoor experience.