ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest radio ad, entitled "Stem Cell Response." The ad is in response to Barack Obama's "false" and "misleading" radio ad on stem cell research. John McCain is proud to have a record of supporting stem cell research and will continue to fight for this vital research as President. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "Thus, when Obama's radio ad says, 'John McCain has stood in the way ... he's opposed stem cell research,' it is misleading voters by not pointing out that McCain changed his mind on the issue seven years ago and currently supports stem cell research. The ad cleverly uses the word 'has' to imply that McCain still opposes the research -- which is not true." (Jake Tapper, "From the Fact Check Desk: Stem Cell Selling," ABC News' "Political Punch" Blog, 
 , Posted 9/23/08) 
 
 
 "The ad then hits home with an emotionally charged appeal from a woman who's identified as the mother of a child with diabetes. 'For Maddy and millions of others, stem-cell research can unlock cures,' the woman says in the ad. 'Barack Obama understands that. But John McCain just doesn't.' Why that's wrong: McCain doesn't oppose stem-cell research. He supports it." (Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," 
, 9/24/08) 
 "And McCain has backed up his words with his vote twice in recent years, even when it meant challenging President Bush and a majority of his fellow Senate Republicans. That's not standing in the way of, or opposing, stem cell research. We rate the Obama ad False." ("McCain 'Has Opposed Stem Cell Research,'" PolitiFact.com, 
, 9/16/08) 
 
 
 "McCain joined Giuliani in parting company with the others on stem cell research. Acknowledging the presence of Nancy Reagan, who has campaigned for federal support for such research, McCain said: 'This is a tough issue for those of us in the pro-life community. I would remind you that these stem cells are either going to be discarded or perpetually frozen. We need to do what we can to relieve human suffering. It's a tough issue. I support federal funding.'" (Dan Balz and Michael D. Shear, "GOP Field United On War, Divided On Social Issues," 
, 5/4/07) 
 "Recently McCain was among seven Republican senators who voted against a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and was among 19 who voted for federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, both of which put him at odds with the president." (Glenn Frankel, "The McCain Makeover," 
, 8/27/06) 
 "In 2004, he was one of 14 Republicans who signed a letter to Bush urging him to lift restrictions on the research, which they said had the potential 'to treat and better understand deadly and disabling diseases and conditions that affect more than 100 million Americans, such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury and many others.'"(Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," 
, 9/24/08)