In Recent Years Our Two Countries Have Developed Greater Ties Across a Broad Spectrum of Fields, Including Energy, Commerce, and Defense
The United States of America and the Republic of India enjoy a strategic and economic partnership unequalled in our history. On July 18, 2005, President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh announced their resolve to transform the relationship between their countries and establish a global partnership. Since then, our two countries have made substantial progress in joint cooperation, resulting in a bilateral relationship that is closer than ever before. In 2008, bilateral trade, foreign direct investment, and people-to-people ties are at an all-time high. Trade has almost doubled in the last three years alone, the stock of Indian foreign direct investment in the United States was nearly $3 billion in 2007, U.S. investment in India exceeds $13.6 billion, and citizens of both countries travel back and forth in record numbers.
The historic civil nuclear agreement marks the end of 34 years of India's isolation from the global mainstream in civil nuclear energy technology. While working to prevent nuclear proliferation, protect the environment, and enhance energy security, India and the United States have transformed their relationship to one built on trust, mutual benefit, and full civil nuclear cooperation.
The economic expansion between the United States and India promotes growth, two-way trade, investment, and energy security. The two countries share fully in the opportunities of a globalized economy. The economic benefits extend from the strategic and military spheres to space and commerce.
President Bush and Prime Minister Singh share a strong commitment to fundamental democratic freedoms, institutions, and traditions. Each has expressed his belief that democracy is central to prosperity, development, and peace.
The two leaders believe cooperation on energy security, air quality, and climate change contributes to sustained economic growth through increased production and efficiency. U.S.-India cooperation is also strengthening efforts to manage greenhouse gas emissions and cut harmful air pollution without constraining economic development.
The United States and India both place a strong emphasis on the value of education, agriculture, and health and will continue to broaden engagement to build on the progress of the last four decades. Such improvements directly benefit the people of both countries and hold hope for more promising livelihoods.
The United States and India hold a responsibility as global powers to promote stability and security in Asia and around the world. We are building the foundation of a durable relationship that will support our common strategic and security interests well into the 21st century.