ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today launched the Coalition to Protect Coal Jobs. The coalition, a nationwide group including members of Congress, state government and other influential leaders, will spread the message about the importance of clean coal technology and the advantages of tapping the country's vast coal reserves. The group will also speak out to protect critical coal jobs when they come under attack from the most anti-American energy ticket in history.
In addition to providing domestic energy, the coal industry is a critical part of the economy in several states. As part of John McCain's "all of the above" energy plan, the Lexington Project, clean coal will be a key component of the drive to energy independence.
John McCain's support for clean coal technology is in sharp contrast with both Barack Obama and his running mate, Joe Biden. Earlier this year Barack Obama said, "What we ought to tax is dirty energy, like coal" and just last week, Joe Biden claimed to be a "hard-coal miner" on his trip to Virginia, saying that it was "nice to be back in coal country." Yet a few days earlier in Ohio, Senator Biden said he wants "no coal plants here in America" and that he and Barack Obama are "not supporting clean coal."
 "With Senator Joe Biden's comments in Maumee, Ohio, it is clear that coal is under attack by the liberal leadership in Washington. The future of West Virginia and its vital resource are at stake in this election. West Virginians know that you cannot talk one way on the campaign trail and act differently in Washington. Senator Biden's comments are an attack on West Virginia's future and good paying jobs in the state. They reveal the real agenda of some in Washington to ban the use of coal in America which would be devastating to West Virginia's economy. Now that the real Obama-Biden plan to tax and then ban the use of coal has been revealed, it is not surprising that they have not made any campaign stops in West Virginia."
 "When Senator Biden said, 'We're not supporting clean coal ... No coal plants here in America,' he reminded us of the Obama campaign's absurd, pandering opposition to clean coal technology, which is important to our economic and energy security. Virginia can't afford a president that has proposed taxing coal, voted against coal-to-liquid legislation, and has energy proposals that would restrict the growth of Virginia's coal industry, from our coalfields to the ports. Indeed, abundant American clean coal is, and must be, an essential component of America's strategic energy independence for affordable electricity and a potential transportation fuel."
 "Senator Biden's recent statement further demonstrates he's clueless to the western way of life and culture. Thousands of men and women depend on jobs in the coal mines that are in my congressional district in the Western Slope. Reports have concluded that the United States has enough supply in coal deposits to last 300-plus years, a keystone to America's energy independence when clean coal technology ensures coal mining a viable energy solution. Instead of focusing on improving the technology to make the exploration and excavation a safer and cleaner process, Biden has unequivocally opposed clean coal technology to appease those who are against Senator McCain's 'all of the above' energy solution. His remark shows he and Bara ck Obama are complete strangers to Colorado and the west. This is one more example of the Obama campaign saying one thing on the coasts and something else in Colorado."
 "When it comes to clean coal technology, an Obama-Biden ticket lacks the judgment and leadership necessary to help our country move towards energy independence. Clean coal technology is right for our nation's energy needs and right for our nation's economy. While the McCain-Palin ticket understands the importance of energy independence for America, it is unfortunate that in every instance the Obama-Biden ticket can only offer 'no' when it comes to America's energy needs."
 "Just days before describing himself as a 'hard-coal miner' to a group of United Mine Workers, Joe Biden spoke out against coal in Ohio and pledged that there would be no new coal plants in the United States. Worse than the Obama-Biden position against Montana coal is the shameless pandering on the campaign trail that supports coal, but if elected, reassures strong opposition. While energy prices soar, the Obama-Biden campaign says no to tapping into proven American energy and instead is proposing higher taxes on oil, coal, and natural gas. Montana voters deserve an honest energy policy -- something they're not getting from Barack Obama and Joe Biden."
 




 Biden: "We're not supporting clean coal. Guess what, China is building two every week. Two dirty coal plants. And it's polluting the United States, it's causing people to die." Question: "So will you support wind and solar technologies?" Biden: "Absolutely. Before anyone did. The first guy to introduce a global warming bill was me, 22 years ago. The first guy to support solar energy was me, 26 years ago, it came out of Delaware. But guess what? China's going to burn 300 years of bad coal unless we figure out how to clean their coal up because it's going to ruin your lungs and there's nothing we can do about it. No coal plants here in America. Build them, if they are going to build them over there, make them clean, because they're killing you." (Sen. Joe Biden, Remarks At Campaign Event, Maumee, OH, 9/17/08)
 "I hope you won't hold it against me, but I am a hard-coal miner, anthracite coal, Scranton, Pa.,' Biden said. It's nice to be back in coal country. ... It's a different accent [in Southwest Virginia] ... but it's the same deal. We were taught that our faith and our family was the only really important thing, and our faith and our family informed everything we did.'" (Debra McCown, "Biden: It's Nice To Be Back In Coal Country'," Bristol [VA] Herald Courier, 9/21/08)
 "By contrast, here are portions of the Kinnock commercial and Biden's Iowa debate summation: Why am I the first Kinnock in 1,000 generations to be able to get to university?' asked Kinnock. Was it because our predecessors were thick? ... Was it because they were weak, those people who could work eight hours underground (as coal miners) and come up and play football, weak?' Biden's version went, Why is it that Joe Biden is the first in his family ever to go to a university? ... Is it because our fathers and mothers were not bright ... Was it that they didn't work hard, my ancestors who worked in the coal mines of Northeastern Pennsylvania and would come up after 12 hours a nd play football for four hours?'" (W. Dale Nelson, "Biden's Borrowing Of Words Went Beyond The Ordinary," The Associated Press, 9/24/87)
 "Biden grew up in a white-collar suburb, his father was a car salesman, one grandfather was a state senator, and the only Biden on record as having worked near a mine was a mining engineer." (Jodie T. Allen, "This Is (Not Quite) Your Life," Slate Magazine, 11/20/97)
 HBO's Bill Maher: "Senator Biden, forgetting about the upcoming Iowa caucus for just a moment, which would you honestly say is more likely to contribute to the death of your average American: a terrorist strike or high-fructose corn syrup and air that has too much coal in it?" Biden: "Air that has too much coal in it, corn syrup next, then a terrorist attack. But that is not in any way to diminish the fact that a terrorist attack is real. It is not an existential threat to bringing down the country, but it does have the capacity, still, to kill thousands of people. But hundreds of thousands of people die and their lives are shorte ned because of coal plants, coal-fired plants and because of corn syrup." (Sen. Joe Biden, Slate, Yahoo, The Huffington Post Presidential Forum, 9/13/07)
 Biden: "I don't think there's much of a role for clean coal in energy independence, but I do think there's a significant role for clean coal in the bigger picture of climate change. Clean-coal technology is not the route to go in the United States, because we have other, cleaner alternatives. But I would invest a considerable amount of money in research and development of clean-coal and carbon-sequestration technologies for export." (Amanda Griscom Little, "Biden On The Record," Grist, 
, 8/29/07)
 Question: "What's your position on liquefied coal?" Biden: "Again, I don't think it's the way to go in the U.S., but we could invest in technologies for export. I don't think there's any reasonable prospect that China, as it continues to grow to 1.4 billion people, is not going to use their coal." (Amanda Griscom Little, "Biden On The Record," Grist, 
, 8/29/07 )
 "Bunning, R-Ky., amendment no. 1628 to the Reid, D-Nev., substitute amendment no. 1502. The Bunning amendment would mandate that 6 billion gallons of clean coal-derived fuels' be produced by 2022. It would define these fuels as having 20 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than gasoline and being produced by facilities that capture 100 percent of carbon dioxide emissions." (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #213: Rejected 39-55: R 39-6; D 0-47; I 0-2, 6/19/07, Biden Voted Nay)
 "Inhofe, R-Okla., amendment no. 1505 to the Reid substitute amendment no. 1502. The Inhofe amendment would expedite the permitting process for the expansion of refinery facilities and authorize funds for the development of coal-to-liquid and cellulosic biomass fuels." (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #210: Rejected 43-52: R 43-2; D 0-48; I 0-2, 6/13/07, Biden Voted Nay)
 "Tester, D-Mont., amendment no. 1614 to the Reid, D-Nev., substitute amendment no. 1502. The Tester amendment would authorize a $10 billion direct loan program for certain fuel plants that can produce gas from a range of feedstocks, have gas emissions 20 percent lower than conventional baseline emissions and sequester 75 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. It would also authorize $200 million in cost sharing for the design and engineering of fuel plants that can meet such emissions targets." (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #214: Rejected 33-61 : R 3-42; D 29-18 I 1-1, 6/19/07, Biden Voted Nay)
 "There's a difficult conversation to be had with voters in coal states like Kentucky about the fate of coal and the steps political leaders can take to help coal communities through the coming transition. For the moment, at least, Obama seems unwilling to have that conversation." (Kate Sheppard, "Obama's Own Pander," Grist's "Gristmill" Blog, 
, 5/6/08)
 "Given that CCS is a decade away, it follows that Obama's policies would amount to a suspension of commercial coal-plant construction for the duration of his term, whether it's four or eight years, excluding publicly funded demonstration projects like FutureGen. That would allow for little growth in Kentucky coal, unless it started shipping its coal overseas (as of 2006, 80 percent -- $2 billion worth -- was exported [clarification: exported' to other states, not overseas])." (Kate Sheppard, "Obama's Own Pander," Grist's "Gristmill" Blog, 
, 5/6/08)
 "The Obama campaign has made it clear that they want no new coal plants in the meantime. Jason Grumet, a top Obama energy adviser, told Grist that the policies we have already articulated make [coal plants without CCS] economically unrealistic.'" (Kate Sheppard, "Obama's Own Pander," Grist's "Gristmill" Blog, 
, 5/6/08)
 Obama: "What we ought to tax is dirty energy, like coal and, to a lesser extent, natural gas." ("Q&A With Sen. Barack Obama," San Antonio Express-News, 2/19/08)
 "Bunning, R-Ky., amendment no. 1628 to the Reid, D-Nev., substitute amendment no. 1502. The Bunning amendment would mandate that 6 billion gallons of clean coal-derived fuels' be produced by 2022. It would define these fuels as having 20 percent fewer greenhouse gas emissions than gasoline and being produced by facilities that capture 100 percent of carbon dioxide emissions." (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #213: Rejected 39-55: R 39-6; D 0-47; I 0-2, 6/19/07, Obama Voted Nay)
 "Inhofe, R-Okla., amendment no. 1505 to the Reid substitute amendment no. 1502. The Inhofe amendment would expedite the permitting process for the expansion of refinery facilities and authorize funds for the development of coal-to-liquid and cellulosic biomass fuels." (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #210: Rejected 43-52: R 43-2; D 0-48; I 0-2, 6/13/07, Obama Voted Nay)

