"We need to work together to open up markets for American goods. Exports account for a greater share of America's gross domestic product than at any time in our history. It is not too late for Congress to approve free trade agreements with strong allies like Colombia, Panama, and South Korea – so that we can create more opportunities for American farmers, ranchers, and entrepreneurs
"
 
"The sooner we get approval, the sooner we are going to get much more investment in Colombia. Growing investment is the best alternative to illegal drugs, and never forget: illegal drugs are the nutrition of terrorists in our country."
 
 
 Colombia is a strategic ally of the United States, and this visit underscores the deep friendship and extensive cooperation between the United States and Colombia. The two leaders will discuss a range of issues, including their shared commitments to the U.S.-Colombia FTA, reducing violence, and increasing peace and security in Colombia and democracy throughout the region.
 Passage of legislation to implement the FTA would demonstrate U.S. support for an important ally and help cement the gains made by President Uribe, who has worked closely with the United States to accommodate concerns, including revising the FTA to include rigorous labor and environmental protections.
 
 Colombia is currently our third-largest trading partner in South America, and its potential to purchase American goods and services is growing. 
 
 Unemployment and poverty in Colombia are at their lowest levels in a decade.
. When these three agreements are approved and implemented, nearly all tariffs and other trade barriers on American goods and services exports will be eliminated in these markets.
 Last year, the U.S. exported a record $1.6 trillion in goods and services to countries around the world, and in the past four quarters, trade has accounted for more than half of the growth in the U.S. economy. For the first half of 2008, the United States exported $926 billion worth of goods and services, 18 percent higher than the same period in 2007. The growth in exports has helped to strengthen the American economy.