ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Dome." The ad highlights Barack Obama's support for increased federal spending that will only lead to an expansion in the size of government. To pay for it, Barack Obama will have to, and promises to, raise taxes that American families just cannot afford. The ad will be televised nationally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Barack Obama's Spending Proposals: 
, Accessed 8/19/08) 
 "Obama's campaign on Monday scoffed at the McCain proposals. But Obama hasn't been talking boldly about the certain path to a balanced budget. He promises to cut taxes for most Americans ... and he has a full plate of spending initiatives." (Editorial, "Failure Of Nerve," 
, 7/8/08) 
 (John Maggs, "Obama On The Economy," 
, 5/31/08) 
 "The Obama campaign responds that tax cuts, once enacted, are usually renewed and do not expire. Therefore, they say, Obama can legitimately claim to be recouping money for other purposes by scaling back the tax cuts. Obama has not identified new revenue sources or spending cuts to pay for some of what he wants to do." (Peter Nicholas, "Adding Up The Cost Of Obama's Agenda," 
, 7/8/08) 
 "'I do not make a promise that we can reduce it by 2013 because I think it is important for us to make some critical investments right now in America's families,' Obama told reporters this week when asked if he'd match McCain's pledge." (Nedra Pickler, "Analysis: Obama Won't Try For McCain's Budget Goal," 
, 7/8/08) 
 "Since winning the nomination, Obama reportedly has been moving toward the middle of the political spectrum. But on the budget, he still sounds left of center, with no interest in eliminating deficit spending." (Editorial, "Failure Of Nerve," 
, 7/8/08) 
 
 
 
 "Obama's transformation, if you go by his campaign so far, would mean higher income taxes, higher Social Security taxes, higher investment taxes, higher corporate taxes, massive new domestic spending, and a healthcare plan that perhaps could be the next step to a full-scale, single-payer system. Is that what most Americans want, someone who will fulfill a Democratic policy wish list?" (James Pethokoukis, "Barack Hussein Reagan? Ronald Wilson Obama?" 
's "Capital Commerce" Blog, 
 , 2/12/08) 
 "Both [Obama and Clinton] promised to not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 or $250,000 a year. They both just emasculated their domestic programs. Returning the rich to their Clinton-era tax rates will yield, at best, $40 billion a year in revenue. It's impossible to fund a health care plan, let alone anything else, with that kind of money. The consequences are clear: if elected they will have to break their pledge, and thus destroy their credibility, or run a minimalist administration." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "No Whining About The Media," 
, 4/16/08) 
 
 "Obama's spending agenda -- exceeding $307 billion a year dwarfs that of Bill Clinton a decade and a half ago. And he would be sure to run into the same immovable mathematical obstacle faced by the last Democratic president. Taxing the handful of CEOs and other fat cats won't be enough. The big money Obama wants will have to come from the many millions of middle-class taxpayers." (Editorial, "Only CEOs Need Fear," 
, 5/9/08) 
 Obama: "[I] would roll back the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Sen. Barack Obama, CNN Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/3/07) 
 "Changes in the individual income tax affect most businesses in the United States. That is because taxes on business earnings are often paid through the individual income tax when 'passed-through' to business owners. The business income from sole proprietorships, farm proprietorships, partnerships, S corporations, etc., is all taxed at the owners' individual income tax rates. This year 34 million business owners are expected to receive this type of income and pay tax on this income through the individual income tax. These businesses are typically small and often entrepreneurial in nature, and a source of innovation and risk-taking in the economy. Moreover, these business owners are frequently subject to the highest individual income tax rates." ("Topics Related To The President's Tax Relief," U.S. Departm ent Of Treasury, 
, May 2008) 
 "Sen. Obama
Differ," 
, 6/18/08) 
 (Internal Revenue Service Website, "Individual Income And Tax Data, By State And Size Of Adjusted Gross Income, Tax Year 2006," 
 , Accessed 7/30/08) 
 (Internal Revenue Service Website, "Individual Income And Tax Data, By State And Size Of Adjusted Gross Income, Tax Year 2006," 
 , Accessed 7/30/08) 
 "Most debate over whether to extend the reduced rates on dividends and capital gains has focused on the tax benefits of these cuts to high-income taxpayers. What has been largely ignored is the impact these tax policies have on corporations' decisions on how best to distribute their income to shareholdersincluding senior citizens, who rely most on the stable flow of income that dividends provide. A recent Tax Foundation analysis illustrated that a large number of those benefiting from dividends are seniors and those on the verge of retirement (See 
 ). A further analysis of these seniors earning dividends reveals that lower-income seniors who file tax returns depend more heavily on dividend i ncome than high-income seniors." (Gerald Prante, "The Importance Of Dividend Income For Low-Income Seniors," Tax Foundation, 
, 2/8/06) 
 "Obama's proposal ... would impose social security taxes on income above $250,000 per year. He would continue to exempt income between $102,000 and $250,000 from social security taxes." (Teddy Davis, Sunlen Miller, and Gregory Wallace, "Obama Kisses Billions Goodbye," ABC News' "Political Radar" Blog, 
 , 6/18/08) 
 Obama: "What we ought to tax is dirty energy, like coal and, to a lesser extent, natural gas." ("Q&A With Sen. Barack Obama," 
, 2/19/08) 
 (Energy Information Administration Website, 
 , Accessed 6/9/08) 
 (Energy Information Administration Website, 
 , Accessed 6/9/08) 
 Obama: "I think it is appropriate for us to impose a windfall profits tax on our oil companies."
 
 "But to add a five-year tax increase on top of that to pay for a one-year gift to voters would, indeed, increase the cost of doing business. That cost would be passed along in forgone investment in new production, lower dividends for pension funds and other shareholders, and higher prices at the pump -- thus socking it to the consumers whom the plan is supposed to help. If oil prices fall, there might be no windfall profits to tax. Then the Obama rebate would have to be paid for through spending cuts, taxes on something else or borrowing." (Editorial, "Tapping Tired Wells," 
, 8/6/08) 
 "Certainly Obama's votes indicate a willingness to raise taxes, and Obama has not been shy about saying explicitly that he will raise some taxes." ("The $32,000 Question," FactCheck.org, 
 , 7/8/08)