ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Fact Check." The ad highlights the Obama campaign's efforts to smear Governor Sarah Palin by peddling in rumors and airdropping operatives into Alaska to dig up dirt. The ad will air in key states. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 "We've been flooded for the past few days with queries about dubious Internet postings and mass e-mail messages making claims about McCain's running mate, Gov. Palin. We find that many are completely false, or misleading." (Brooks Jackson, Jessica Henig, Emi Kolawole, Joe Miller and Lori Robertson, "Sliming Palin," FactCheck.org, 
, 9/8/08) 
 "Obama advisers and surrogates have linked Palin to conservative former presidential candidate Pat Buchanan. An Associated Press story from Alaska, dated July 17, 1999, stated that Palin, then the mayor of the small town of Wasilla, was wearing a Buchanan button during a Buchanan visit to Alaska." (Jim Kuhnhenn, "Palin's Husband Was Member Of Third Party," 
, 9/2/08) 
 "Here's Rep. Robert Wexler of Florida: John McCain's decision to select a vice presidential running mate that endorsed Pat Buchanan for President in 2000 is a direct affront to all Jewish Americans. Pat Buchanan is a Nazi sympathizer with a uniquely atrocious record on Israel, even going as far as to denounce bringing former Nazi soldiers to justice and praising Adolf Hilter for his 'great courage.'" (Ben Smith, "Palin On Israel," 
, 
 , Posted 8/29/08) 
 "'Palin was a supporter of [MSNBC analyst] Pat Buchanan, a right-winger or as many Jews call him: a Nazi sympathizer,' Obama spokesman Mark Bubriski wrote in an email." (Marc Caputo, "Obama Camp Connects The Dots For Jews: McCain...Palin...Buchanan...Nazis," 
's "Naked Politics" Blog, 
 , Posted 8/30/08) 
 CARVILLE: "This is like the weirdest thing that I've ever seen. I can't even explain it. I have no idea why they did this. I think they must be having some terrible second thoughts at the convention right now, it's going to be all about -- it's all about Sarah Palin. They got every kind of story from the cockamamie secessionist party that she was part of up in Alaska to trying to get rid of books in the library and god knows what else." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 9/2/08) 
 BEGALA: "She did sell it. But here's what bothers me more, the press has ignored this and I don't know why. She said, let me quote from her speech: 'To the families of special needs children, I pledge to you that if we are elected we will have a friend and advocate in the White House.' This is the mother of a special needs baby, who heroically chose live, to give that Down Syndrome baby life who is also the aunt, we learned from Kyra Phillips reporting in Anchorage, of another special needs child and yet she cut funding for special needs education by 62 percent. It was $8.2 million when she came in, she cut it down to $3 million. Now, that's a real issue. There are lots of moms and dads who have chosen life and who love their special needs babies in Alaska who now are not going to get the help they need because Sarah Palin put politics first. I think that's a more legitimate fib to talk about from Sarah Palin's speech." (CNN's "Election Center," 9/5/08) 
 "Former New York Mayor Ed Koch, as part of his endorsement of Obama, said Palin 'scares the hell out of me.' And Obama hit Palin in nearly a dozen different press releases one day after drawing laughs at a campaign stop by calling her a 'moose shooter.'" (Jim Vandehei & Mike Allen, "Obama, Dems Sharpen Personal Attacks On Palin," 
, 
 , 9/10/08) 
 
 "Democrats understand Sarah Palin is a formidable political force who has upset the Obama victory plan. The latest Washington Post/ABC Poll shows John McCain taking a 12-point lead over Barack Obama among white women, a reversal of Mr. Obama's eight-point lead last month. It's no surprise, then, that Democrats have airdropped a mini-army of 30 lawyers, investigators and opposition researchers into Anchorage, the state capital Juneau and Mrs. Palin's hometown of Wasilla to dig into her record and background. My sources report the first wave arrived in Anchorage less than 24 hours after John McCain selected her on August 29." (John Fund, Op-Ed, "The Hunt For Sarah October," 
, 9/9/08)