HENDERSON, NV -- The McCain-Palin campaign today issued the following statement from Ty Cobb, Nevada Sportsmen for McCain Co-Chair, regarding Barack Obama's comments about Governor Sarah Palin on Monday in Farmington Hills, Michigan. Obama derided Gov. Palin for being a "mother, governor, moose shooter" while the crowd booed and laughed.
 "Time and again, Barack Obama has proven that he does not understand that the right to bear arms is every citizen's basic constitutional right. He wants to take guns from law-abiding citizens and appoint federal judges who feel the same. He is clearly out of touch with Americans, especially those of us in the west. Unlike their opponents, John McCain and Sarah Palin are strong supporters of the Second Amendment. McCain understands that we must prosecute criminals to the fullest extent of the law, rather than forcing law-abiding citizens to give up their constitutional rights. The differences between the two nominees for president are vast, especially on this issue, and the choice is clear if you want to maintain your rights."
 Question: "Do you support state legislation to ... ban the manufacture, sale and possession of handguns? [Obama's Response:] Yes."
 "The gun furor basically revolves around Senate Bill 1195, sponsored by Democratic Sen. Antonio Munoz. It would ban shotguns with a bore of .50 caliber or more, the net result, according to numerous interpretations, being to outlaw a variety of shotguns, and even muzzleloaders." (Lew Freedman, Op-Ed, "Hunters Need Not Worry--Yet," 
, 4/19/03)
 "[T]he campaign of Democratic presidential hopeful Barack Obama said that he '...believes that we can recognize and respect the rights of law-abiding gun owners and the right of local communities to enact common sense laws to combat violence and save lives. Obama believes the D.C. handgun law is constitutional.'" (James Oliphant and Michael J. Higgins, "Court To Hear Gun Case," 
, 11/20/07)
 "The D.C. law, like laws in Chicago and New York City, doesn't explicitly bar handguns; it requires that all residents register them with the city. Since the city stopped registering handguns in 1976, no one who hadn't registered by then can have a handgun at home. The result, effectively, is a ban. D.C.'s law also bars residents from keeping any other firearm, such as a rifle or a shotgun, loaded or assembled." (Emma Schwartz, "The Right To Bear Arms," 
, 3/6/08)
 "Adding even further skepticism to Obama's claim of support for the 2nd Amendment is his previous service as a director of the 
Joyce Foundation. Since 2000, the 
Joyce Foundation has provided over $15 Million in funding to radical gun control organizations such as the Violence Policy Center and the Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence. The 
Joyce Foundation is tightly linked to the Soros Open Society Institute -- an extremis t group that advocates a worldwide ban on civilian firearm ownership." (Illinois Stat e Rifle Association, "ISRA Blasts Candidate Obama On His Record Of Hostility Toward Law-Abiding Firearm Owners," Press Release, 8/24/04)
 "[O]bama cast a total of 4 votes in opposition to SB2165. SB2165 was drafted to protect homeowners from prosecution in cases where they used a firearm to halt a home invasion. Once again, Obama found himself on the wrong side of the issue as overwhelming majorities of both the House and the Senate voted in favor of this important legislation. Obama's steadfast opposition to SB2165 is indicative of his misplaced priorities on issues of self-defense and personal firearm ownership." (Illinois State Rifle Association, "ISRA Blasts Candidate Obama On His Record Of Hostility Towa rd Law-Abiding Firearm Owners," Press Release, 8/24/04) 
 Obama: "I am not in favor of concealed weapons ... I think that creates a potential atmosphere where more innocent people could (get shot during) altercations." (Mike Wereschagin and David M. Brown, "Candidates' Gun Control Positions May Figure In Pa. Vote," 
 4/2/08)
 (S.B. 604, Senate Floor Third Reading, Failed, 29-27-0, 4/4/01, Obama Voted Nay)
 (Todd Spivak, "Sen. Obama Helps Defeat A Concealed Firearm Bill," 
, 4/11/01)
 "Concealed-carry laws would only increase the problem of handgun violence and ultimately make the streets less safe everywhere ... It was a bad idea and I'm glad it failed..." (Todd Spivak, "Sen. Obama Helps Defeat A Concealed Firearm Bill," 
 4/11/01)
 (S. 397, CQ Vote #206: Motion Agreed To 66-32: R 53-1; D 13-30; I 0-1, 7/26/05, Obama Voted Nay; S. 397, CQ Vote #219: Passed 65-31: R 50-2; D 14-29; I 1-0, 7/29/05, Obama Voted Nay)
 The NRA has given Obama 3 "F's." (National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund Website, 
, Accessed 1/8/08; National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund Website, 
, Accessed 1/8/08; 1998 Illinois National Rifle Association Political Victory Fund Political Preference Chart, p.2)