 He thanked them for working closely and effectively with his Administration on behalf of America's veterans, and shared our Nation's many accomplishments so far in waging the War on Terror.The United States became a Nation at war on September 11, 2001. In this war, we are using all assets of national power to keep the pressure on the enemy and the American people safe from harm. The War on Terror will be won on the offense – and that is where America's fight against terrorism must remain.
 Because we acted, the Afghan people have been liberated, and a nation that was once a training ground for terrorists has become an ally in the war on terror. We built a strong coalition of nations, including every member of the NATO Alliance, to help the Afghan people defend their young democracy. We will ensure Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists seeking to launch attacks on America or our allies.
 In 2006, the situation in Iraq was deteriorating, so the President ordered a surge of forces into Iraq.Since the surge began violence in Iraq has dropped, civilian deaths and sectarian killings are down, and political and economic progress is taking place. Iraq is a rising democracy, and an ally in the cause of peace. Our troops have begun to come home under our policy of return on success.
 We have doubled funding for Special Operations Command, increased the number of unmanned aerial vehicles, and started moving American forces from Cold War garrisons in Europe and Asia so they can deploy rapidly to anywhere in the world. We are increasing the size of our ground forces, and making our troops more lethal and more agile so they can remain on the offense. Over the past seven years, America and our allies have captured or killed hundreds of al Qaida leaders and operatives in more than 24 countries. We will continue to fight the terrorists overseas so we do not have to face them here at home.
 That is not for lack of trying on the part of the terrorists. Our intelligence and law enforcement professionals have worked with our allies to stop major al Qaida attacks – including a plot to blow up transatlantic flights from London and a plan to strike the tallest skyscraper in Los Angeles.
 This Administration has used all of these tools to stop new attacks and dismantle terrorist networks. Because the War on Terror will go on, these tools will make it possible for future Administrations to protect the American people for years to come. The Administration has:
 Over the past seven years, we have seen citizens in Afghanistan and Iraq establish representative governments after decades of tyranny. We are standing with brave democratic reformers and dissidents from Damascus to Tehran. We have seen people in Lebanon take to the streets and demand independence, and citizens of former Soviet republics stand up for their right to free and fair elections.
 Since the Rose Revolution of 2003, the people of Georgia have held free elections and established democratic institutions. Georgia has also sent troops to Afghanistan and Iraq to help others realize the blessings of liberty. Yesterday Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with members of the NATO Alliance, who agreed that Russia must honor its commitment to withdraw troops from Georgia and to return to the status quo before hostilities began on August 6. The alliance is also considering seriously the implications of Russia's actions for the NATO-Russia relationship, and agreed to help Georgia by sending NATO teams to assess the country's needs, and by forming a new NATO-Georgia Commission.
 The Administration has worked closely and effectively with the VFW on behalf of America's veterans. His budget includes nearly $94 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs – nearly double its funding at the time he took office. The President and his Administration have also: