 U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released its latest television ad, entitled "Broken." The ad highlights John McCain's record of taking on the special interests in Washington. The ad will air in key states.
 
 
 
 
 (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "The Real McCain," 
, 2/26/08)
 "John McCain has fought for 14 long, hard years for reforms that seriously limit lobbyists' power ... He has fought for campaign finance reform, limits on gifts and travel from lobbyists, and extensive public disclosure of lobbyists' activities all of which limit the influence of lobbyists and the companies that hire lobbyists in Washington, D.C." (Public Citizen, "One Thing Overlooked In Flap Over McCain And Lobbyists: His Record On Reform," Press Release, 2/26/08)
 "Ten years ago, Senator John McCain took on the tobacco industry, saying he would never back down from legislation to regulate the industry. ... McCain's decade of work on tobacco, one of the most significant efforts of his congressional career, has earned him enmity from the industry and from some fellow Republicans over the years." (Michael Kranish, "McCain's Stand On Tobacco Is Put To Test," 
, 3/26/08)
 "In 1998, McCain championed anti-smoking legislation that faced furious opposition from the tobacco lobby. McCain guided the legislation through the Senate Commerce Committee on a 19-1 vote, but then the tobacco companies struck back. They hired 200 lobbyists and spent $40 million in advertising (three times as much as the Harry and Louise health care reform ads). Many of the ads attacked McCain by name, accusing him of becoming a big government liberal. After weeks of bitter debate, the bill died on the Senate floor." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "The Real McCain," 
, 2/26/08)
 "At a press conference today, Sen. Olympia J. Snowe (R-Maine) introduced breakthrough bipartisan, consensus prescription drug reimportation legislation, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act, with Sens. Byron Dorgan (D-ND), John McCain (R-AZ), Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Tom Daschle (D-SD), Trent Lott (R-MS) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI)." (Sen. Olympia Snowe, Press Release, 4/21/04)
 "McCain said he wanted the government to be able to negotiate lower drug prices and import cheaper drugs from Canada, both ideas that were adamantly opposed by industry lobbyists, and which ultimately failed." (Eamon Javers, "Is John McCain Good For Business?" 
, 2/7/08)
 "The most public front was active last week, with the Senate passing a bill intended to make it easier for cheap generic drugs to come onto the market. The bill, sponsored by Sens. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and John McCain, R-Ariz., drew considerable support in Congress and strong opposition from the pharmaceutical industry." ("Insurers' 'Counter' Attacks Aim To Boost Generic Drugs," 
, 8/11/02)
 "In 2002, McCain capped his long push for campaign finance reform by passing the McCain-Feingold Act. People can argue about the effectiveness of the act, but one thing is beyond dispute. It was a direct assault on lobbyist power, and earned McCain undying enmity among many important parts of the Republican coalition, who felt their soft money influence was being diminished." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "The Real McCain," 
, 2/26/08)
 "In 2004, McCain launched a frontal assault on the leasing contract the Pentagon had signed with Boeing for aerial refueling tankers. McCain's investigation exposed billions of dollars of waste and layers of contracting irregularity." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "The Real McCain," 
, 2/26/08)
 "In 2005, McCain led the Congressional investigation into the behavior of the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. The investigation was exceedingly unpleasant for Republicans, because it exposed shocking misbehavior by important conservative activists." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "The Real McCain," 
, 2/26/08)
 
 "Americans are right to be offended when extravagant CEO salaries and severance deals bear no relation to their company's success or shareholders' wishes. As president, John McCain will see that wrongdoing of this kind is called to account by federal prosecutors. Under his reforms, all aspects of a CEO's pay, including severance arrangements, must be approved by shareholders." (John McCain 2008, "A Leader We Can Believe In To Help Small Businesses," Press Release, 6/11/08)
 "The Task Force will aggressively investigate potential criminal wrongdoing in the mortgage industry and bring to justice any who violated the law. The DOJ Task Force will offer assistance to State Attorney Generals who are investigating abusive lending practices." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Economic Plan," Press Release, 4/15/08)
 "Congress already has several investigations underway to examine this kind of wagering in our energy markets, unrelated to any kind of productive commerce, because it can distort the market, drive prices beyond rational limits, and put the investments and pensions of millions of Americans at risk. John McCain believes that where we find abuses, they need to be swiftly punished. To make sure it never happens again, we must reform the laws and regulations governing the oil futures market, so that they are just as clear and effective as the rules applied to stocks, bonds, and other financial instruments." (John McCain 2008, "Securing Our Energy Future," Press Release, 6/17/08)
 (H.R. 6, CQ Vote #152: Motion Agreed To 92-4: R 53-1; D 38-3; I 1-0, 6/23/05, McCain Voted Nay; H.R. 6, CQ Vote #158: Passed 85-12: R 49-5; D 35-7; I 1-0, 6/28/05, McCain Voted Nay; H.R. 6, CQ Vote #213: Adopted 74-26: R 49-6; D 25-19; I 0-1, 7/29/05, McCain Voted Nay)
 McCain: "This bill does little to address the immediate energy crisis we face in this country. The handouts to big business and oil companies are irresponsible and will be disastrous for people of Arizona. I cannot in good conscience, vote to pass legislation that does not adequately address issues related to energy efficiency, security, and energy independence." (Sen. John McCain, "McCain, Kyl Say No To Flawed Energy Bill," Press Release, 6/28/05)