As the next step in unifying the Recovery Program for the single purpose of efficiency, the President has by Executive Order included all members of the Special Industrial Recovery Board in the National Emergency Council. This action adds as members of the National Emergency Council the following:
The Attorney General

The Director of the Budget

The Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission
Hereafter the National Emergency Council will assume the responsibilities and carry out the duties of the Recovery Board as provided in the Executive Order of June 16, 1933, and as supplemented by the Executive Order of July 15, 1933.
The National Emergency Council is proceeding with a preliminary organization. It is seeking to select with care an outstanding citizen in each State as State Director. It is studying the extent to which it will be necessary to organize local councils. It is drafting a system of linking these councils together and with Washington, so that all Emergency Agencies can function effectively.
Until this survey is completed it will be necessary to continue the existing local committees. For this purpose the President has by Executive Order withheld the abolition of these committees for thirty days from December 17, 1933.
A survey of this projected field activity now is under way for use in the preparation of a tentative budget. From the preliminary estimates of the cost it seems very likely that operation under the Council will save the Federal Treasury a very large sum of money. The use of a single field organization instead of separate ones for each emergency agency will wipe out all needless and costly duplication of personnel, and in addition will make for a more effective administration.
The Council also is going ahead with the preparation of its plan to provide every citizen in the country with easily understood guidance for the use of the Recovery and Relief Agencies. Its factual information is being assembled and a system is being charted for its distribution.
The National Emergency Council plans to hold its first meeting Tuesday, December 19. Thereafter it is expected that the National Emergency Council and the Executive Council will meet on alternate Tuesdays.