For the purpose of consolidating, coordinating and making more efficient and productive the emergency activities of the Federal Government, and for the purpose of assisting in carrying into effect the provisions of the various emergency acts, the President, by Executive Order, has created the National Emergency Council. This Council is composed of the following:

The Secretary of the Interior

The Secretary of Agriculture

The Secretary of Commerce

The Secretary of Labor

The Administrator of Agricultural Adjustment

The National Emergency Council

The Administrator for Industrial Recovery

The Administrator of Federal Emergency Relief

The Chairman of the Board of Home Owners Loan Corporation

The Governor of the Farm Credit Administration, and a representative of Consumers' Council.
The functions and duties of the Council will be prescribed by the President, and such rules and regulations as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes for which the Council is created will be prescribed by an Executive Director, subject to the approval of the President.
In order that local activities may be linked directly and effectively with the Federal administrative power, there will be appointed State directors for the National Emergency Council as well as county councils.
The Council will set up in Washington a central information bureau for the purpose of conveying to the general public all factual information with reference to the various governmental agencies. It will set up similar bureaus throughout the various counties in the United States. It will also provide machinery, temporary in character, for the adjustment of such controversies as may arise from the operation of the National Industrial Recovery Act and the Agricultural Adjustment Act.
The creation of this organization will bring about the elimination of a number of committees and agencies necessarily created during the early stages of the emergency, and will, thus, effectively consolidate and coordinate the field activities of the Government.
For the time being and until a permanent Executive Director is appointed, the President has asked Mr. Frank C. Walker, Executive Secretary of the Executive Council, to serve temporarily as Acting Executive Director of the National Emergency Council.