 This legislation responds to the President's call last year to expand our commitment to this successful program for five additional years. In 2003, President Bush launched the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) to combat global HIV/AIDS – the largest commitment by any nation to combat a single disease in human history. Today's legislation will dramatically increase the financial commitment to this fight – authorizing up to $48 billion to combat global HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.
 Under this legislation, the next phase of the American people's generous commitment to those suffering from HIV/AIDS will support:
 These men and women will help Africa curb the HIV epidemic – along with many other health challenges facing the continent.
 It commits $4 billion to fight tuberculosis (TB), which is the leading killer of Africans living with HIV. The bill will further allow us to expand highly effective international TB programs, further promote TB-HIV program integration, and address MDR-TB and the newly emerged threat of XDR-TB.
 This bill eliminates a statutory restriction that has kept HIV-positive people from entering the United States without a waiver.
 The legislation will restore meaningful funding for AB programs and maintain the core principle of AB as part of an effective prevention approach. For example, a decrease in sexual activity among unmarried young people in Kenya has helped reduce that nation's HIV infection rates by roughly two-thirds over the past decade.
Prostitution and sex trafficking are abusive and dehumanizing to women, and they fuel the spread of HIV. This legislation preserves the current law requiring that organizations receiving U.S. Government money:
 The legislation's strengthened conscience clause will ensure continued participation by faith- and other community-based partners, which are uniquely positioned to promote HIV/AIDS stigma reduction and prevention messages, as well as to provide counseling and testing, home care, clinical services, and other interventions. The bill ensures that these organizations will not be required to participate in or refer to any program or activity to which they have a religious or moral objection and ensures that they will not be discriminated against in procurement for refusing to do so.
 Last year, 87 percent of PEPFAR partners were indigenous organizations, and nearly a quarter were faith-based.
 They had the opportunity to meet with patients and see the hope this program has given them, in addition to visiting with doctors, nurses, and caregivers of all faiths working to save the lives of their fellow citizens.