 The President and his Administration are working to create greater energy security for our Nation. With the understanding that there is no short-term solution to high energy prices, President Bush is taking action to expand domestic production, increase vehicle efficiency, and promote alternative fuels to reduce the impact on American families. The President recognizes that we cannot rely on just one energy source; we need all of them. With only three days left before leaving for yet another recess, the Democrat-led Congress has failed to take action to improve our energy security.
 To reduce pressure on prices, President Bush recognizes, we need to increase the supply of oil – especially here at home. One of the most important steps we can take to expand domestic oil and natural gas production is to increase access to offshore exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). In June, President Bush called on Congress to lift the legislative ban on exploration in currently restricted areas of the OCS, but Congress has not taken action. Recently, the President lifted the executive branch restrictions on this exploration. Now, the only thing standing between the American people and this offshore oil is the United States Congress.
 The President's "Twenty in Ten" challenge called for a 20 percent reduction in oil use by 2010 through improved vehicle fuel economy and increased alternative fuels. EISA also requires a national fuel economy standard of 35 miles per gallon by 2020 – which will increase fuel economy standards by 40 percent and save billions of gallons of fuel.
 Under the proposed rule, the fuel economy on a fleet-wide basis will increase by an average of 4.5 percent annually through 2015 – a 25 percent improvement over the current standard. This standard exceeds the 3.3 percent average annual increase needed to reach the target passed by Congress last year.
 The Administration is working to expand the use of clean, safe nuclear power, solar and wind power, and clean coal technology. The President and his Administration have worked to expand the use of alternative fuels and raise fuel efficiency standards, as well as investing in new advanced batteries, plug-in hybrids, and hydrogen fuel cells.