ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, in an interview with ABC's Charlie Gibson, Barack Obama once again demonstrated that his words on Jerusalem really don't matter. When asked about his direct statement that Jerusalem "must remain undivided" and his subsequent backtracking, Barack Obama said, "I conceded that the wording was poor." Unfortunately, for Barack Obama, poor wording has consequences in foreign policy and it is still not what he said to AIPAC: 
 ABC's Charlie Gibson: "And then there's the issue of Jerusalem. You've said in the speech, to AIPAC, Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel. And it must remain undivided. When you said that did you not realize the significance that that has for so many people in this region?" Barack Obama: "Well, number one, the fact is that Jerusalem is Israel's capital. And so I was simply saying a fact, with respect to..." Gibson: "You said 'must remain undivided,' those are code words." Obama: "Well the issue of it being undivided, I have said and I said immediately after the speech that that word was poorly chosen, that what I was referring to is making sure that we're not setting up barbed wire across Israel..." Gibson: "But Senator, it was a very simple, declarative statement. It must remain, and you started the paragraph by saying, 'Let me be clear.'" Obama: "Charlie, the day after, or the day of making the speech I conceded that the wording was poor, and it's immediately corrected." Gibson: "Rookie mistake?" Obama: "Well I wouldn't say rookie mistake, I think that veterans make mistakes as well." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08)
• 
 
 Gibson: "And then there's the issue of Jerusalem. You've said in the speech, to AIPAC, Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel. And it must remain undivided. When you said that did you not realize the significance that that has for so many people in this region?" Barack Obama: "Well, number one, the fact is that Jerusalem is Israel's capital. And so I was simply saying a fact, with respect to ..." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
 Gibson: "You said 'must remain undivided,' those are code words." Obama: "Well the issue of it being undivided, I have said and I said immediately after the speech that that word was poorly chosen, that what I was referring to is making sure that we're not setting up barbed wire across Israel..." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
 Gibson: "But Senator, it was a very simple, declarative statement. It must remain, and you started the paragraph by saying, 'Let me be clear.'" Obama: "Charlie, the day after, or the day of making the speech I conceded that the wording was poor, and it's immediately corrected." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
 Gibson: "Rookie mistake?" Obama: "Well I wouldn't say rookie mistake, I think that veterans make mistakes as well." (ABC's "World News Tonight," 7/23/08) 
 Obama: "Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel, and it must remain undivided." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At The Annual AIPAC Policy Conference, Arlington, VA, 6/4/08)
• 
. CNN's Candy Crowley:
(CNN's "The Situation Room," 6/5/08)
• 
 (Glenn Kessler, "Obama Clarifies Remarks On Jerusalem," 
 "The Trail" Blog, 
 , 6/5/08) 
 "The United States cannot dictate the terms of a final status agreement. We should support the parties as they negotiate these difficult issues, but they will have to reach agreements that they can live with. In general terms, clearly Israel must emerge in a final status agreement with secure borders. Jerusalem will remain Israel's capital, and no one should want or expect it to be re-divided." ("Barack Obama Responses," American Jewish Committee, 
, Accessed 7/22/08) 
 "Third, he addressed the issue in 2000 in a position paper on Israel as part of his unsuccessful congressional campaign that year. In that paper, he stated, 'Jerusalem should remain united and should be recognized as Israel's capital.'" (Rick Richman, "Obama's Redivided Jerusalem," 
, 7/16/08)