OREGON CITY, OR -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced Oregon's Grassroots Leadership Team. This team of local Oregon leaders will help organize and manage the campaign's grassroots efforts, including the "get out the vote" turnout operation, in each county and city across the state of Oregon.
Each of Oregon's 36 counties will have a designated chairman at the local level to serve as the point of contact for local volunteers and supporters, and to help communicate John McCain's message of country first, national security, stronger economy and government reform.
"John McCain has proven throughout his life that putting our great country first will be the guiding principle that defines his administration," said former Oregon Governor Victor Atiyeh. "McCain's unquestioned bipartisan approach to finding solutions to the tough issues facing Oregonians today is refreshing in a time of unmitigated partisanship and gridlock in Washington."
Gov. Atiyeh continued, "Through our strong and diverse leadership team we will be able to effectively drive a message of low taxes, stimulating the economy and genuine answers to health care concerns. John McCain has a bold, principled plan to help America move forward without bowing to ever-changing political winds. Oregon deserves a strong president that rises above petty partisanship and puts country first."
Victor Atiyeh, Former Governor
Greg Walden, Congressman

Bob Smith, Congressman

Denny Smith, Congressman

Jason Atkinson, State Senator

Ted Ferrioli, Senate Minority Leader

Bruce Hanna, House Minority Leader

Jackie Winters, St ate Senator

Vance Day, Oregon Republican Chairman

Ron Maurer, State Representative

Gordon Sondland, CEO Provenance Hotels

Ron Saxton, former Republican Nominee for Governor
Sally Stevens, 1st Congressional District Chair

Cheri Adkins, 2nd Congressional District Chair

Dick Osborne, 3rd Congressional District Chair

Patt Farr, 4th Congressional District Chair

Lynn Snodgrass, 5th Congressional District Chair
John Veenendaal
Fred Yauney
Beau McNeff
Neal Lockhart
Brian Steeves

Tom Yates
Georgia Murray
Ernie Moore
Lou Dobbins
Larry Lear
Neva DeMayo
Rudy Stefancik, MD

Bill Hansell
Lanny Hildebrant
George Ballard
Freda Yoakam
Bill Gast

Jeremy Gilpin
Lee Smith
King Williams
Seth Crawford
Warren Merz

Ruth Broadman
Joe Spendollini
Jane O'Keefe
Sue Ramsay
June Hartley
Lisa Sullivan
Stella Guenther
Mary Grimes
Andy Jackson
Fred Dayton
Bill Ertel

Richard Smith
Warren Glaze
Kaye Ridley
Wes Chadwick
Roger Tracey
Greg Leo
Marjorie Hughes

Linda Neace
Paul Knobel