BELLEVUE, WA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced Washington's Grassroots Leadership Team. This team of local Washington leaders will help organize and manage the campaign's grassroots efforts, including the "get out the vote" turnout operation, in each county and city across the state of Washington.
Each of Washington's 39 counties will have a designated chairman at the local level to serve as the point of contact for local volunteers and supporters, and to help communicate John McCain's message of country first, national security, stronger economy and government reform.
"John McCain's maverick record and ability to work across party lines to reach common ground appeals to the independence inherent in the voters of Washington," said Ralph Munro, former Washington Secretary of State. "McCain's pledge to put country above politics is not an empty sound bite from a rehearsed speech but rather a guiding principle that has shaped his entire life. From his time in the Hanoi Hilton to his successful record in Congress, John McCain has shown the leadership and character that will deliver results for Washingtonians."
Ralph Munro continued, "Our leadership team brings countless years of experience in Washington. Our grassroots team will effectively carry our message of lower taxes, energy independence and a safe America to every voter in our 39 counties. John McCain will provide the leadership much needed to ensure a more successful tomorrow."
Rob McKenna, Attorney General

Slade Gordon, former United States Senator

Ralph Munro, former Washington Secretary of State

Della Newman, former Ambassador
Kathy Bowen
Susan Fagan
Tony Benegas
Fredi Simpson
Jim McEntire
Margie Ferrris

Anne Donnelly
Ann Heath
Hal Palmer

Dennis Webber
Jon Wyss
Bob Moran
Ann Heath
D. Angus Lee
Gary Randall
Linda Sturza

Sam Cunningham
Anne Burkhart
David Doud

Chris Morgan

Phil Bevis

Walt Schrader
Judy Eagleson-Mentor

Ed Wolfe
Matt Manweller
Laura Cheney
Robert Wheeler

Cy Myers
Fred Fleming

John Nelson
Marilyn Laubach
Melanie Wyss
Nan Malin
Bob Moran
Jane Milhans

Deryl McCarty
Minnie Knych
Mark Hulst

Anne Marie Humphreys
Tommy Campbell
Jason Bontrager
George Herion
Grant Peterson
 John Darby
Claudia Rua
Cory Hewitt
Larry Helm
Susan Fagan

Ann Heath
Al Schweppe