 U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released its latest television ad, entitled "Family." The ad highlights Barack Obama's support for higher taxes and increased government spending that will only put more burdens on America's small businesses and cost jobs. While Barack Obama is the biggest celebrity in the world, that doesn't do much to help American families who are hurting from higher gas prices and the threat of home foreclosure. John McCain has proposed an "all of the above" energy plan -- the Lexington Project -- to produce more energy here in America, invest in renewable energy, create jobs and achieve energy independence. The ad will air in key states.
 
 
 
 
 "Obama's transformation, if you go by his campaign so far, would mean higher income taxes, higher Social Security taxes, higher investment taxes, higher corporate taxes, massive new domestic spending, and a healthcare plan that perhaps could be the next step to a full-scale, single-payer system. Is that what most Americans want, someone who will fulfill a Democratic policy wish list?" (James Pethokoukis, "Barack Hussein Reagan? Ronald Wilson Obama?" 
's "Capital Commerce" Blog, 
, 2/12/08)
 "Obama's proposal ... would impose social security taxes on income above $250,000 per year. He would continue to exempt income between $102,000 and $250,000 from social security taxes." (Teddy Davis, Sunlen Miller, and Gregory Wallace, "Obama Kisses Billions Goodbye," ABC News' "Political Radar" Blog, 
, 6/18/08)
 Obama: "[I] would roll back the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Sen. Barack Obama, CNN Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/3/07)
 "Sen. Obama
Differ," 
, 6/18/08)
 Obama: "What we ought to tax is dirty energy, like coal and, to a lesser extent, natural gas." ("Q&A With Sen. Barack Obama," 
, 2/19/08)
 "NTUF's third round of 'costing out' the candidates' platforms since January 29 found that Clinton would increase yearly federal spending by $289.6 billion, compared to Sen. Obama's (D-IL) $343.9 billion -- both significantly higher totals from the last update on March 3." (National Taxpayers Union Foundation, "As Presidential Campaign Pace Quickens, Candidates Race Ahead With Bigger Federal Budget Promises, Updated Study Shows," Press Release, 6/3/08)
 "By our calculations, using figures supplied by the campaigns, Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton (N.Y.) has proposed new spending and tax breaks that would amount to almost $265 billion a year when fully implemented, while the initiatives proposed by Sen. Barack Obama (Ill.) total nearly $333 billion." (Editorial, "Who'll Cover The Checks?" 
, 4/25/08)
 "Barack Obama says John McCain's plan to balance the budget doesn't add up. Easy for him to say: It's not a goal he's even trying to reach. Not only does Obama say he won't eliminate the deficit in his first term, as McCain aims to do, he frankly says he's not sure he'd bring it down at all in four years, considering his own spending plans." (Nedra Pickler, "Analysis: Obama Won't Try For McCain's Budget Goal," 
, 7/8/08)
 "Both [Obama and Clinton] promised to not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 or $250,000 a year. They both just emasculated their domestic programs. Returning the rich to their Clinton-era tax rates will yield, at best, $40 billion a year in revenue. It's impossible to fund a health care plan, let alone anything else, with that kind of money. The consequences are clear: if elected they will have to break their pledge, and thus destroy their credibility, or run a minimalist administration." (David Brooks, Op-Ed, "No Whining About The Media," 
, 4/16/08)
 
 
 "Green jobs and green technology will be vital to our economic future. There is no reason that the U.S. should not be a leader in developing and deploying these new technologies." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Lexington Project," Press Release, 6/25/08)
 "Coal produces the majority of our electricity today. Some believe that marketing viable clean coal technologies could be over 15 years away. John McCain believes that this is too long to wait, and we need to commit significant federal resources to the science, research and development that advance this critical technology. Once commercialized, the U.S. can then export these technologies to countries like China that are committed to using their coal -- creating new American jobs and allowing the U.S. to play a greater role in the international green economy." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Lexington Project," Press Release, 6/25/08)
 "Nuclear power is a proven, zero-emission source of energy, and it is time we recommit to advancing our use of nuclear power. Currently, nuclear power produces 20% of our power, but the U.S. has not started construction on a new nuclear power plant in over 30 years. China, India and Russia have goals of building a combined total of over 100 new plants and we should be able to do the same. It is also critical that the U.S. be able to build the components for these plants and reactors within our country so that we are not dependent on foreign suppliers with long wait times to move forward with our nuclear plans." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Lexington Project," Press Release, 6/25/08)
 "This reform will simplify the tax code, reward activity in the U.S., and make us more competitive with other countries. A permanent credit will provide an incentive to innovate and remove uncertainty. At a time when our companies need to be more competitive, we need to provide a permanent incentive to innovate, and remove the uncertainty now hanging over businesses as they make R&D investment decisions." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Lexington Project," Press Release, 6/25/08)
 "According to the Department of Energy, wind could provide as much as one-fifth of electricity by 2030. The U.S. solar energy industry continued its double-digit annual growth rate in 2006. To develop these and other sources of renewable energy will require that we rationalize the current patchwork of temporary tax credits that provide commercial feasibility. John McCain believes in an even-handed system of tax credits that will remain in place until the market transforms sufficiently to the point where renewable energy no longer merits the taxpayers' dollars." (John McCain 2008, "John McCain's Lexington Project," Press Release, 6/25/08)
 "$300 million battery prize. Obama derides this as a gimmick, but McCain's idea for developing a radically better battery for powering a new generation of cars strikes us as smarter than more bureaucratic approaches. Like the X-Prize that helped propel the first civilian aircraft into space, a reward can leverage huge private investment. The idea would be better, though, if it focused on building radically more fuel-efficient cars regardless of the technology." (Editorial, "Mccain + Obama = A Valid Energy Plan," 
, 7/3/08)