 In 2003, President Bush launched the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), committing $15 billion over five years to combat global HIV/AIDS – the largest international health initiative in history to fight a single disease. In 2007, the President called for Congress to expand our commitment to this successful program for five additional years.
 This bipartisan legislation will preserve PEPFAR's results-oriented focus on supporting HIV/AIDS treatment, care, and prevention.
 The legislation before Congress will restore meaningful funding for AB programs and maintain the core principle of AB as part of an effective prevention approach.
 Prostitution and sex trafficking are abusive and dehumanizing to women, and they fuel the spread of HIV. This legislation preserves the current law requiring that organizations receiving U.S. Government money:
 The legislation's strengthened conscience clause is critical to ensuring continued participation by faith- and community-based partners, which are uniquely positioned to promote HIV/AIDS stigma reduction and prevention messages, as well as to provide counseling and testing, home care, clinical services, and other interventions. The bill ensures that these organizations will not be required to participate in or refer to any program or activity to which they have a religious or moral objection and ensures that they will not be discriminated against in procurement for refusing to do so.


 The United States made the Fund's founding contribution and has pledged approximately $4 billion and contributed over $2.5 billion to date – far more than any other nation.
 The bill also includes important new benchmarks for the Global Fund on transparency and accountability, as well as penalties if they are not met.
 When the President announced PEPFAR in 2003, only 50,000 people in all of sub-Saharan Africa were receiving treatment.
 Last year, 87 percent of PEPFAR partners were indigenous organizations, and nearly a quarter were faith-based. PEPFAR has also: