 Leaders of Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the European Union, France, Germany, Indonesia, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Republic of Korea, Russia, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States issued a Declaration that:
 There is now broad acknowledgement that all Major Economies must contribute to solving the problem, recognizing that what steps each Major Economy takes will differ according to its national circumstances.
 This new goal marks a major step forward in America's ongoing efforts to address climate change. As we continue to fully implement strong new laws, provide appropriate incentives, and adhere to the principles the President outlined for future programs, the United States will continue on an ambitious new track for greenhouse gas reductions. The growth in emissions will slow over the next decade, stop by 2025, and begin to reverse thereafter, so long as technology continues to advance. Our landmark actions will prevent billions of metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere.
 Since 2001, the President has devoted approximately $45 billion for climate-related science, technology, observations, international assistance, and tax incentive programs. Annual funding for technology R&D currently exceeds $4 billion. The United States has $42.5 billion in loan guarantee authority available for technologies that avoid, reduce, or sequester greenhouse gases or air pollutants, including nuclear, large-scale renewables, and clean coal technologies. Our farmers now can compete for billions of dollars in conservation incentives to sequester carbon dioxide.
 Congress passed and the President signed last December energy legislation that responds to the President's "Twenty in Ten" challenge to improve vehicle fuel economy and increase alternative fuels. The Renewable Fuels Standard will increase the use of renewable fuels by more than 500 percent – requiring fuel producers to supply at least 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel in the year 2022. The Vehicle Fuel Economy Mandate specifies a national mandatory fuel economy standard of 35 miles per gallon by 2020, which will save billions of gallons of fuel and increase efficiency by 40 percent. Additionally, the legislation establishes mandatory programs for efficiency of lighting, appliances, and Federal government operations.
 The President launched a comprehensive portfolio of domestic initiatives to develop new technologies through dozens of voluntary, incentive-based, and mandatory programs. These programs include Climate VISION, Climate Leaders, SmartWay Transportation Program, and the Hydrogen Fuel Initiative. The United States is a world leader in advancing a broad range of technology needs, including fusion, hydrogen, nuclear, plug-in vehicles, batteries, biofuels, low-carbon coal power generation, large-scale renewable power, and electricity transmission.