ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today announced the Virginia Veterans for McCain, a statewide grassroots organization that will work to bolster John McCain's support within Virginia's veterans' community. With members from all 11 congressional districts in Virginia, the group's membership spans generations, including veterans from World War II to the combat operations in Iraq.
Virginia's Veterans for McCain held press conferences today in both Arlington and Virginia Beach to formally announce the organization and endorse Senator John McCain's candidacy for President of the United States.
In Arlington today, Virginia's Veterans for McCain Chairman, and former Vietnam POW, Paul Galanti said, "John McCain has the experience, judgment and character to lead this country as Commander-in-Chief. John and I were both POWs, and I know he has an unshakeable character and unwavering dedication to country; always putting country above himself. That is why Virginia's Veterans are organizing and enthusiastically dedicating our time and effort to helping him win in November. We believe John McCain will be the best Commander-in-Chief that this nation has seen in a generation."
In Virginia Beach today, Veteran for McCain Vice Admiral Hank Giffin, said, "In the world we live in today, we need a leader like John McCain who has extensive national security and foreign policy experience. He is a leader who will work with our allies to secure a more peaceful world. With John McCain as Commander-in-Chief, we will make substantial progress in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The course Barack Obama advocates would weaken our security and could put peace further out of reach. Our nation will be strengthened with John McCain as President and Commander-in-Chief."
Senator McCain served for 22 years in the U.S. Navy, including 5 1/2 years as a POW, and was commander of the largest attack squadron in the Navy. During his military career, McCain was awarded a Silver Star, a Bronze Star, the Purple Heart and a Distinguished Flying Cross.
Paul Galanti, Chairman

Kathy MacKenzie, State Coordinator

Phil Short, State Coordinator
Cord Sterling, Stafford

Lucian Niemeyer, Gainesville

Robert Hipps, Toano

Susan Hohenberg, Fredericksburg
Ken Golden, Virginia Beach

Dave Winiker, Virginia Beach
Seth Ginther, Richmond
Wayne Ozmore, Chester

William Coburn, Carrollton
Flint Engleman, Ruckersville

Thomas Grzymala, Keswick
Robert James, Lexington
Roger Sullivan, Richmond

Karla Boughey, Glen Allen

Jeff Prillaman, Midlothian

David Carroll, Richmond

Rudy Wadle, Manakin-Sabot

Don Kaiserman, Richmond

Jerry Lipson, Alexandria

Bill Meierling, Arlington

Dick Thompson, McLean

Jim Davison, Arlington

Steven Primrose, Falls Church
Shea Cook, Richlands

Paul Spangler, Bristol
 Charles McKinney, Ashburn

Shannon Kellogg, Leesburg

Glenn Yarborough, McLean

John Hunter, Arlington
Jim Hyland, Fairfax

Art Narro, Burke

Lex Fleming, Fairfax
John Pickering, Washington, D.C.