On Tuesday, July 15, 2008, the President signed into law:
H.R. 430, which designates the United States bankruptcy courthouse located in Brooklyn, New York, as the Conrad B. Duberstein United States Bankruptcy Courthouse;
H.R. 781, which redesignates Lock and Dam No. 5 of the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System near Redfield, Arkansas, as the "Colonel Charles D. Maynard Lock and Dam;"
H.R. 1019, which designates the United States customhouse building located in Mayaguez, Puerto, Rico, as the Rafael Martinez Nadal United States Customhouse Building;
H.R. 2728, which designates the station of the United States Border Patrol located in Murrieta, California, as the Theodore L. Newton, Jr. and George F. Azrak Border Patrol Station;
H.R. 3721, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Lorena, Texas, as the Marine Gunnery Sgt. John D. Fry Post Office Building;
H.R. 4140, which designates the Port Angeles Federal Building in Port Angeles, Washington, as the Richard B. Anderson Federal Building;
H.R. 4185, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in El Monte, California, as the Marisol Heredia Post Office Building;
H.R. 5168, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Brooksville, Florida, as the Cody Grater Post Office Building;
H.R. 5395, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in St. Louis, Missouri, as the William "Bill" Clay Post Office Building;
H.R. 5479, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Ionia, Michigan, as the Alonzo Woodruff Post Office Building;
H.R. 5517, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Humble, Texas, as the Texas Military Veterans Post Office;
H.R. 5528, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located in Brockton, Massachusetts, as the Rocky Marciano Post Office Building;
H.R. 5778, which provides the Board of Directors of the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority (WASA) exclusive authority for establishing the financial management, personnel, and procurement functions and responsibilities of WASA; and repeals hiring preferences for District residents for WASA positions; and
H.R. 6040, which amends the requirement relating to travel expenses reimbursement incurred by members of the Committee on Levee Safety.