The Administration is committed to the effective conduct of United States intelligence activities under the law to protect the Nation. Regrettably, enactment of H.R. 5959 as reported is inconsistent with that objective. The Administration acknowledges that the bill contains some provisions requested by the Administration that support the mission and function of the Intelligence Community, including sections 302, 304, 313, 319, 401, and 402. However, the bill contains other provisions, many of which the Administration has objected to in the past, that conflict with the effective conduct of intelligence activities, the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, and arrangements that for decades have balanced congressional oversight responsibility with the need to restrict access to intelligence information to safeguard sources and methods used to acquire that information. Accordingly, the Administration strongly opposes enactment of H.R. 5959. 
:
:
. The Administration strongly opposes section 316, which would require a comprehensive report on all measures taken by elements of the IC to comply with the Detainee Treatment Act and related provisions of the Military Commissions Act. Existing law and understandings provide the appropriate arrangements for ensuring the congressional committees are informed of sensitive intelligence and intelligence-related activities.
. Section 317 would incorporate by reference all reporting requirements in the classified annex into the act, thereby making them a requirement in law. The Administration strongly opposes the imposition of reporting requirements in this opaque manner. Further, such a provision would remove the flexibility that Congress and the Executive branch would otherwise have to modify and adapt provisions in the classified annex to meet changing conditions and requirements without seeking a statutory change.
. The Administration strongly objects to sections 103 and 104 and provisions in the classified schedule of authorizations which set caps on the number of personnel in the Intelligence Community, and provide only limited authority to exceed the personnel caps. The language in this bill is particularly disappointing in that it does not include provisions contained in the House- and Senate-passed Intelligence Authorization Act for FY 2008 concerning the transition to full-time equivalency and conversion of activities performed by contractors. H.R. 5959 is also problematic in that it would add significant new duties and responsibilities to the Office of the DNI without allowing for a corresponding increase in the personnel needed to execute those duties.
. The Administration strongly opposes sections 305 and 306, which would require the DNI to prepare an annual assessment of the personnel and contractor levels for each element of the IC. Section 305 would require disclosure of privileged law enforcement information. Section 306 violates long-standing arrangements regarding the release of classified information concerning highly sensitive national security matters such as intelligence collection, analysis, and covert actions. Further, the detailed reporting requirements contained in these sections would require considerable IC resources to complete, may be impossible to complete with existing resources, and would not produce meaningful results.
The Administration also objects to the requirement in section 307 for the DNI to submit a report on performance-based compensation. The DNI responded to a much broader reporting requirement last year. If any additional information is required, the DNI is prepared to provide it without a specific statutory requirement to do so.
. The Administration strongly opposes section 406, which would require semiannual reports on the nuclear programs of Iran, Syria, and North Korea. This provision violates the well-established process of comity and accommodation that has existed between the two branches of government by requiring the release of highly sensitive national security information such as an evaluation of intelligence sources and a summary of any intelligence related to any such program.
Similarly, the Administration opposes section 411, which would mandate the preparation of a National Intelligence Estimate on weapons of mass destruction programs undertaken by Syria. Such requirements undermine the flexibility and judgment of IC professionals to approach intelligence topics in the most appropriate manner. The production of intelligence products should be left to cooperative relationships and established dialogue.
. The Administration strongly opposes section 504, which specifies that a notification to the congressional intelligence committees regarding intelligence information relating to North Korea or China, after all or part of the information has been communicated to those governments, does not satisfy the duty to keep the committees fully and currently informed. This provision would statutorily constrain the President's conduct of foreign affairs, effectively requiring the President to conduct sensitive aspects of U.S. foreign policy through the intelligence committees.
. The Administration opposes section 106, which would prohibit the use of funds to implement the FBI's program that requires reassignment of supervisors after five years. This program promotes upward mobility among the agents, helps ensure that the members of the FBI management gain broad experiences throughout their careers, and ensures that the FBI is able to continue to benefit from the experience of these experienced managers.
. The Administration opposes section 413, which would require the DNI to appoint an ombudsman for IC security clearances. This provision would duplicate ongoing security clearance reform efforts.
The Administration would like to work with the House to address the concerns described above and urges inclusion of the Administration's requested authorities, especially enhanced personnel flexibilities throughout the IC, which are integral to the DNI's efforts to improve management of intelligence personnel.