 Today, U.S. Representative Eric Cantor (R-VA) held a press conference call to discuss Barack Obama's Iraq position in light of recent comments from his National Co-Chair Claire McCaskill:
 "My concern has to do with Barack Obama's National Co-Chair Claire McCaskill's statements on the news shows this week, responding to a question about whether Barack Obama was going to be changing his Iraq policy. And Claire McCaskill responded emphatically, no, that he would not change course. I just believe that that raises serious questions as to the sensibility of that position given what's going on in Iraq right now, what's going on, on the ground.
"And I think that if you look at Barack Obama's plan, what sounded sensible, perhaps to some, a year ago when he came out with a plan of one brigade a month, and it would take sixteen months, and we would automatically go into withdrawal. Now I believe, given the facts on the ground and the progress that has been made over the last year, I believe its disingenuous to the American people. And again it ignores the realities on the ground.
"I don't think there's any question that Barack Obama should change his plan in Iraq. His old plan is the wrong way to go. I think that it's clear from 
 
 editorial board to pretty much, I don't want to say unanimous, but an overwhelming number of pundits saying that his plan of withdrawal is the wrong way to go, given the progress on the ground. I think he'll have to change it.
"The fact that Claire McCaskill demonstrated [Barack Obama's] unwillingness to change direction is sort of ironic in that the direction in her statement is ironic, that given the facts on the ground, the fact that he accuses current administration policy of not reacting to realities. The fact that he is now clinging to a very ideological commitment on his part, and frankly, commitment to some left-wing supporters that he won't change his mind. I find that interesting.
"But at the end of the day, we're talking about the country's national interests. We're talking about security. That's the purpose of this call to raise some of these questions as to why Barrack Obama would want to sacrifice the progress that has been made."...
 "I guess the question is, if indeed he's going to go to Iraq and nothing that he sees will change or impact his decision-making on this, then why is he going? If it's just to check a box politically, then it represents the kind of cynical politics that the American people are pretty sick and tired off."
• 
 
 
 MSNBC'S MONICA NOVOTNY: "In this week's New Yorker, George Packer writes about Obama's original withdrawal plan in the context of what we're now seeing as a relative stabilization in parts of Iraq. He writes about Obama, 'He doubtless realizes that his original plan, if implemented now, could revive the badly wounded al Qaeda in Iraq, reenergize the Sunni insurgency, embolden Moqtada al-Sadr to recoup his militia's recent losses to the Iraqi Army, and return the central government to a state of collapse. The question is whether Obama will publicly change course before November.' Will he?" SENATOR CLAIRE MCCASKILL: "No. He will not. Senator Obama fundamentally disagrees with that assessment." (MSNBC, 7/1/08)
• 
• 
 "Obama will immediately begin to remove our troops from Iraq. He will remove one to two combat brigades each month, and have all of our combat brigades out of Iraq within 16 months." (Obama Campaign Website, 
, Accessed 7/2/08)
 "Obama has won the Democratic nomination, and Iraq, despite myriad crises, has begun to stabilize. With the general election four months away, Obama's rhetoric on the topic now seems outdated and out of touch, and the nominee-apparent may have a political problem concerning the very issue that did so much to bring him this far."
 "It's time for him to reestablish contact with the improving, but fragile, situation on the ground." (Joe Klein, "Obama And Iraq," 
's "Swampland" Blog, 
, 6/30/08)
 "Obama has a real challenge to overcome with his Iraq plan. As George Packer lays out in The New Yorker, he cannot in good conscience (or good politics) ignore progress on the ground in Iraq -- and if he does that, he'll be putting himself under more pressure to modify his one-brigade-a-month troop-withdrawal plan." (Rick Klein, "Peripatetic Pursuits," 
 "Political Punch" Blog, 
, 6/30/08)
 "Still, the rapidly improving conditions should allow U.S. commanders to make some welcome adjustments -- and it ought to mandate an already-overdue rethinking by the 'this-war-is-lost' caucus in Washington, including Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.). ... Still, the likely Democratic nominee needs a plan for Iraq based on sustaining an improving situation, rather than abandoning a failed enterprise. That will mean tying withdrawals to the evolution of the Iraqi army and government, rather than an arbitrary timetable; Iraq's 2009 elections will be crucial. It also should mean providing enough troops and air power to continue backing up Iraqi army operations such as those in Basra and Sadr City. When Mr. Obama floated his strategy for Iraq last year, the United States appeared doomed to defeat. Now he needs a plan for success." (Editorial, "The Iraqi Upturn," 
, 6/1/08)
 Obama: "Given the deteriorating situation, it is clear at this point that we cannot, through putting in more troops or maintaining the presence that we have, expect that somehow the situation is going to improve, and we have to do something significant to break the pattern that we've been in right now." (NBC's "Meet The Press," 10/22/06)
 Obama: "I am not persuaded that 20,000 additional troops in Iraq is going to solve the sectarian violence there. In fact, I think it will do the reverse." (MSNBC's "Response To The President's Speech On Iraq," 1/10/07)
 Obama: "We cannot impose a military solution on what has effectively become a civil war. And until we acknowledge that reality -- we can send 15,000 more troops, 20,000 more troops, 30,000 more troops, I don't know any expert on the region or any military officer that I've spoken to privately that believes that that is going to make a substantial difference on the situation on the ground." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 1/14/07)
 Obama:
(CNN's "Larry King Live," 3/19/07)
 Obama:
 Obama:
 Obama: "Now, I had no doubt -- and I said at the time, when I opposed the surge, that given how wonderfully our troops perform, if we place 30,000 more troops in there, then we would see an improvement in the security situation and we would see a reduction in the violence. But understand, we started in 2006 with intolerable levels of violence and a dysfunctional government. We saw a spike in the violence, the surge reduced that violence, and we now are, two years later, back where we started two years ago. We have gone full circle at enormous cost to the American people." (Sen. Barack Obama, Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 1/5/08)
 Obama: "In order to end this war responsibly, I will immediately begin to remove our troops from Iraq. We can responsibly remove one to two combat brigades each month. If we start with the number of brigades we have in Iraq today, we can remove all of them 16 months." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks On Iraq, Fayetteville, NC, 3/19/08)
 Obama: "I also think that the surge has reduced violence and provided breathing room -- but that breathing room has not been taken the way we would all like it to be taken." (Sen. Barack Obama, Committee On Foreign Relations, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 4/8/08)
 Gibbs: "You know, what they're doing over there is separated from their families, giving for their country. It's truly, truly amazing, and I think we would want to go over there and talk to them and see what sort of difficulties they're facing and see how it is that we can begin to carefully remove them and carefully bring them back to their families and bring them back to the United States." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 5/29/08)
 "Obama aides said yesterday that the senator from Illinois is now considering a trip to Iraq as part of a long-deferred foreign tour. But they made it clear that he intends to assess how best to withdraw U.S. forces, not to reconsider whether they should be withdrawn." (Jonathan Weisman, "Campaign Jousting Returns To Iraq War," 
, 5/30/08)
 Obama: "We don't need more spin about how the surge is succeeding in doing what it was supposed to do which is to get the Iraqi's to stand up and take responsibility for their own future, so we can start sending our troops homes." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Town Hall, Rapid City, SD, 5/31/08)
 Gibbs: "[W]ell, there's no doubt that the security situation has improved, much as everybody admitted it would if we put more troops on the ground." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 6/6/08)
 Rice: "[W]hat the surge has accomplished so far is improved security, which is important, and, indeed, as Barack Obama said when the surge was announced, anytime you put the finest men and women in uniform on the ground in greater numbers, you're going to have a positive security benefit, and, indeed, we have." (MSNBC's "News Live," 7/1/08)