 -- Rear Admiral Tom Lynch, USN (Ret.) today issued the following statement on Gen. Wesley Clark's attack on John McCain's military service record on CBS' "Face the Nation":
"For anyone to challenge John McCain's service to this country is an insult, particularly when it comes from the Obama campaign. John McCain's life has been defined by putting his country before anything else. If Barack Obama is serious about his promises for a new kind of politics, he can start by denouncing these attacks that are unworthy of anyone who seeks to be the next Commander in Chief."
 
 CLARK: "But he hasn't held executive responsibility. That large squadron in the Navy that he commanded? It wasn't a wartime squadron. He hasn't been there and ordered the bombs to fall. He hasn't seen what it's like when diplomats come in and say, 'I don't know whether we're going to be able to get this point through or not, do you want to take the risk, what about your reputation, how do we handle this publicly?' He hasn't made those points Bob." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)
• 
 CBS' BOB SCHIEFFER: "Well, General, could I just interrupt you. I have to say, Barack Obama has not had any of those experiences either nor has he ridden in a fighter plane and gotten shot down." CLARK: "Well, I don't think riding in a fighter plane and getting shot down is a qualification to be President." (CBS' "Face The Nation," 6/29/08)
 (Jeff Zeleny, "A New Kind Of Politics Closely Resembles The Old," 
, 6/16/07)
• 
 "We've got to get beyond the small politics ... the slash and burn politics that have become the custom in Washington." ("Obama Denounces 'Slash And Burn' Politics," 
, 2/19/07)
• 
 "We don't want the small, timid, slash and burn, negative campaigning of the past." (Josh Hafenbrack, "Obama Barack Obama Calls For New Political Spirit During South Florida Campaign Swing," [Fort Lauderdale, FL] Sun Sentinel, 3/26/07)
• 
 "I know that in Washington it is acceptable to say or do anything it takes to get elected, but I really don't think that is the kind of politics that is good for our party, and I don't think it is good for our country, and I think that the American people will reject it in this election." (Ben Smith, "Obama: Clinton Rewrites History," 
's "Ben Smith" Blog, 
, 1/13/08)
 "McCain was a fighter pilot, who dropped laser-guided missiles from 35,000 feet. He was long gone when they hit. What happened when they [the missiles] get to the ground? He doesn't know. You have to care about the lives of people. McCain never gets into those issues." (Paul J. Nyden, "Jay Defends Endorsement Of Sen. Obama," 
, 4/8/08)
• 
 "This is the second incident in less than a week where we have seen an Obama surrogate -- not just questioning Sen. McCain's ideas -- but directly attacking his character, integrity, and war experience. Is this a pattern we should get used to?" (Matt Lewis, "Another Obama Surrogate Attacks McCain's Honor," 
's "Blog," 
, 4/8/08)
 "But Mr. Schultz, a supporter of Senator Barack Obama, may have gone too far late Friday when he called Senator John McCain 'a warmonger.' Mr. Schultz made the remarks while revving up a group of Obama supporters at a $100-a-head fund raiser at the North Dakota Democratic Party's convention in Grand Forks." (Larry Rohter, "McCain Called A 'Warmonger' At Obama Event," 
' "The Caucus" Blog, 
, 4/5/08)
 "As mentioned earlier, the Obama campaign didn't condemn Schultz's remark, but issued this statement: 'John McCain is not a warmonger and should not be described as such. He's a supporter of a war that Senator Obama believes should have never been authorized and never been waged.'" (Mark Murray, "McCain On The 'Warmonger' Remark," MSNBC's "First Read" Blog, firstread.msnbc.msn.com, 4/5/08)
 "Republican presidential candidate John McCain's family background as the son and grandson of admirals has given him a worldview shaped by the military, 'and he has a hard time thinking beyond that,' Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Ia., said Friday. 'I think he's trapped in that,' Harkin said in a conference call with Iowa reporters. 'Everything is looked at from his life experiences, from always having been in the military, and I think that can be pretty dangerous.'" (Jane Norman, "Harkin: McCain Too 'Military,'" 
, 5/17/08)